# 2023-10-17 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Alistair Sellar
- Birgit Hassler
- Axel Lauer
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Bouwe Andela
- Klaus Zimmerman

Apologies:
- Saskia Loosveldt Tomas


## Action Items from Last Meeting
1. Alistair & Birgit ask teams to generate ideas for the roadmap
2. Alistair add future agenda item on steering group observers: ENES-RI, CMIP IPO, … (done)
3. Ranjini to build a planned wish list with User Engagement Team (fold into UET response to the roadmap action above?)(list created and will be folded in after consultation with the UET)
4. Alistair to add future agenda item on help “other” people to propose more realistic goals (done)
5. Axel to organise a meeting of people who have had contact with Jerry Potter (done)
6. Alistair to send doodle for next proto-steering group meeting (done)

## Action Items following from this meeting
1. All: Bring information/questions etc. from community and wider-community meetings to the SG meeting
2. Birgit: ping Veronika to send the signed letter for NCAS about the CA to Alistair
3. Alistair: send doodle to Ranjini to find a time slot to talk about funding opportunities with respect to capacitiy building in Africa
4. All: think about things that we plan on developing for ESMValTool in the next few years to have good suggestions for a proposal; timeline for this roughly within the next two weeks
5. Alistair: setting up a living document for developing an ESMValTool roadmap

## Agenda
1. Actions from last meeting
2. Freqency of meeting. Set up regular appointment now to help with scheduling?
3. Planning with NASA on cmorisation and hosting of reanalysis datasets (Axel to introduce) – continued
    And wider topic of a cmorisation / fixes community
4. Enacting our policy on inactive GitHub developers (no activity for more than one year): remove inactive people from all core/lead teams on GitHub (Axel to introduce)
5. [Governance checklist](https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/) (Bouwe to introduce)
6. Axel: Discussing strategy of reclassifying tier3 datasets to tier2 for which we have permission from the data providers to do so
7. Discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognising that funding is unpredictable and variable in time
8. Steering group observers: ENES-RI, CMIP IPO, …
9. Helping ourselves and wider community to include achievable ESMValTool goals in their proposals

## Topics
### Discussions on what to put on the meeting agenda
- SG members to read the minutes of the monthly meetings before the Steering Group Meeting
- Everybody to bring items from different meetings (community and wider community); Will be standing agenda item
- Agenda will be written in mark-down with “hackmd”
- Meeting minutes will be made available on Github; will be send around to everybody beforehand to check if something that should not publicly shared should be removed



### Frequency of Meetings
- We decide on monthly meetings.
- Tentative timeslot is third Tuesday of the month, 9:30 UK Time, 10:30 European.
- We will have dedicated minute takers after the SG has officially started; for now the minutes will be taken by people from the SG, taking turns


### Consortium Agreement Update
- Birgit will ping Veronika to sign the letter for NCAS. Should be done by tomorrow.

### Funding updates
- Alistair will send a doodle to find a date and time to chat with Ranjini about possible funding with regard to capacity building with Africa (in relation to ESMValTool)
- Klaus had a meeting with the data task force subgroup of ENES-RI about upcoming Horizon Europe infrastructure calls; two possible calls of interest were identified; in two weeks time the group will make a decision on which call to provide a bid for
- Everybody: think about things that we plan on developing for ESMValTool in the next few years to have good suggestions for a proposal; start a living document about this
- Axel, Alistair, Simon Pinnock and Amy Doherty had a meeting about ESA Climate Space possibilities; ESA is interested in a project about ESA data being used more widely, linkage to obs4MIPs, input to IPCC, strategy to adaptation and regional modeling...; calls open probably spring 2024; ESMValTool roadmap would be helpful for Simon Pinnock to see where our development would go; extend the one-page document that has already been drafted to about three to four pages. 
- Birgit and Alistair to get input from the different ESMValTool teams about envisaged/wished for developments of ESMValTool; teams should get back with input by the next two weeks
- Alistair will set up the living document


