# 2023-11-21 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:

- Alistair Sellar
- Axel Lauer
- Birgit Hassler
- Bouwe Andela
- Klaus Zimmerman
- Ranjini Swaminathan

Apologies:

- Saskia Loosveldt Tomas


## Action Items from Last Meeting

1. All: Bring information / questions etc. from community and wider-community meetings to the SG meeting
2. Birgit: ping Veronika to send the signed letter for NCAS about the CA to Alistair
3. Alistair: send doodle to Ranjini to find a time slot to talk about funding opportunities with respect to capacity building in Africa
4. All: think about things that we plan on developing for ESMValTool in the next few years to have good suggestions for a proposal; timeline for this roughly within the next two weeks
5. Alistair: setting up a living document for developing an ESMValTool roadmap

## Action Items following from this meeting

1. All: bring information / questions etc. from community and wider-community meetings to the SG meeting
2. Birgit+Alistair: contact BSC about additional representative attending proto-steering group meetings
3. Birgit+Alistair: go through list of suggested ESMValTool developments (google docs) and condense input into possible tasks / work packages
4. Alistair: setup doodle for a meeting of "writing team"
5. Birgit: propose dates for next in-person workshop in GitHub Discussions

## Agenda

1. Standing items on actions from previous meetings
2. Funding update
3. Next workshop (if next proto-steering group is not soon enough)
4. Planning with NASA on CMORization and hosting of reanalysis datasets (Axel to introduce) â€“ continued
a. And wider topic of a CMORization / fixes community
5. Consortium agreement
6. Enacting our policy on inactive GitHub developers (no activity for more than one year): remove inactive people from all core/lead teams on GitHub (Axel to introduce)
7. Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)
8. Axel: Discussing strategy of reclassifying tier 3 datasets to tier 2 for which we have permission from the data providers to do so
9. Discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time
10. Steering group observers: ENES-RI, CMIP IPO, ...
11. Helping ourselves and wider community to include achievable ESMValTool goals in their proposals

## Topics

### 1. Actions from previous meetings

#### 1.1 Standing items on actions from previous meetings

##### Information/questions from (wider-)community meetings

   - ESA CMUG integration meeting: ESA Climate Space (CCI successor) offers possibility of funding for ESMValTool development (e.g. comparability of satellite and model data, getting ready for CMIP7)
   - ESGF and obs4MIPs: possibility for funding
   - User Engagement Team Meeting: now active partners from Australia, new topics for tutorial (e.g. Jupyter notebooks, focus on specific realms)
   - Trouble finding release managers for upcoming releases; optimized recipe testing workflow would reduce effort needed for 

### 2. Funding updates

- ESA Climate Space: ESMValTool strategy as input for shaping this call needed (soon)
- Two Horizon Europe calls of interest:

  a. Providing / updating / improving infrastructure for African partners (User Engagement Team)
   - Teach ESMValTool tutorials
   - How to become a developer
   - At least two African partners needed
   - Met Office volunteered to lead proposal
   - Interested partners: Met Office, NLeSC, DLR, SMHI, PML, U Reading (and others)
   - Deadline is mid of March 2024

   b. Infrastructure call
   - ENES-RI members
   - Current stage: collect task information / suggestions what to contribute
   - Ideas for ESMValTool development strategy were collected in google docs document
   - Input on possible task(s) (from strategy document) needed by early December (1/3 page + partners + initial PM estimate)

- EOSC call: fair and open data sharing (Nordic countries)

### 3. Next workshop

- Decision on tentative dates needed soon
- Participation of people from Africa requires decision on possible workshop dates soon
- Organizing committee
- Location still open; possibilities include SMHI, Bremen/DLR, BSC and others

### 4. Planning with NASA on CMORization and hosting of reanalyses

- Contact established (including new person at NASA), details to be discussed in upcoming meetings
- NASA might be able to store CMORized data
- Central task: setting up workflow / framework

### 5. Consortium agreement

- Question: what does it mean if an institution cannot / does want to not sign the consortium agreement (but yet provides 1 FTE) or the other way around for e.g. representation on steering group?
- Consortium agreement is easy to join later
- Possibility in case consortium agreement has not been signed (yet) would be to get observer status in steering group

### 6. Enacting our policy on inactive GitHub developers

Item moved to next meeting.

### 7. Governance checklist

Item moved to next meeting.

### 8. Strategy of reclassifying tier 3 datasets to tier 2

Item moved to next meeting.

### 9. Practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment

Item moved to next meeting.

### 10. Steering group observers

Item moved to next meeting.

### 11. Achievable ESMValTool goals in proposals

Item moved to next meeting.
