# 2024-09-17 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Birgit Hassler (chair)
- Alistair Sellar (notes)
- Axel Lauer
- Romain Beucher
- Saskia Loosveldt Tomas
- Bouwe Andela
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Ulrika Will√©n


## Agenda

1. Standing items: 
    * Actions from previous meetings
    * Update on funding proposals
    * Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    * Next workshop
    * Consortium agreement
2.	Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)

## Action items from Last Meeting
- ESiWACE3 funding (see previous meeting notes for background).
    - Likely to be a future round. Would be good if a different institute applies. Collate ideas related to computational performance.
    - New ACTION: Bouwe to open new GitHub discussion to collate computational performance problems from teams and the wider community.
    - We will arrange a meeting to specify details if/when a call is announced.
- Ranjini: start discussion thread and add to agenda for next monthly meeting a discussion on ESGF plans to deprecate CMIP5/CORDEX data from early next year. 
    - Action complete.
- Birgit: to provide further updates on any discussions with ECMWF on fixes package.
    - Ongoing.
- Axel and Birgit: to check if U.Bremen can host next hybrid workshop in Spring 2025.
    - Not Bremen. Possibly DLR. New ACTION: All to email Birgit and Axel by 24 Sep, else location will be DLR.
- Alistair: to chat with Matthew Mizielinski (CMIP WIP) about possible changes to the ESGF package (esgf-pyclient)
    - Deprecation is more a question of prioritisation (hence time) than a choice to exclude.
    - Timeline for new ESGF is still under development.
    - Action complete.
- Birgit: to raise this concern (ESGF package esgf-pyclient) within the framework of the Model Benchmarking Task Team.
    - Action closed.
- Ranjini: to add governance checklist discussion as an agenda item for the September community meeting.
    - Action complete.

    
## Meeting notes


### Consortium agreement (CA)
- A final version of the agreement will be circulated in the next week.

### Funding proposals
- ESA CLIMATE SPACE call
    - Axel will organise a meeting at the end of this week to agree budget and which tasks we can support.
- European funding opportunities in 2025 - ongoing.


### Next Workshop
- Next workshop hosted by the UK Met Office to be held remotely Nov 19th - 21st.
    - ACTION: Alistair to remind all of dates and that it is fully virtual. Ask for topic ideas and for who would like to participate in particular discussions to inform the time.
- See action discussion about for the spring workshop.




### Governance checklist (not discussed: notes copied from previous meeting) 
- https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/
- Provides information about "lessons-learned" from other software packages
- Would be good to go over this checklist to see if we need to update our own governance; might be a good idea to discuss this at the next workshop
    - Alistair to make sure it is on the workshop agenda and a prior action to make sure we discuss this a steering group meeting (in the September meeting)
    - All: looking through the checklist to have input for the steering group meeting where this will be discussed
- Bring this up at a monthly community meeting before the workshop so that more people can chime in if they want
    - ACTION: Ranjini to put it forward at the next community meeting


## Actions log resulting from this meeting
- Bouwe: open new GitHub discussion to collate computational performance problems from teams and the wider community.
- Birgit: to provide further updates on any discussions with ECMWF on fixes package.
- All: consider whether they would like to host the spring 2025 hybrid workshop, and email Birgit and Axel by 24 Sep. else location will be DLR.
- Alistair: remind community of November workshop dates and that it is fully remote. Ask for topic ideas and for who would like to participate in particular discussions to inform the time.
- Ranjini to raise the governance checklist for discussion / opinions at the next community meeting (see above for background).


## Remaining backlog of agenda items

* Lead for User Engagement Team
* Discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time
* UK national funding possibilities with UKNCSP.


