# 2024-07-16 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Alistair
- Axel
- Romain
- Saskia
- Bouwe
- Ranjini

Apologies:
- Birgit
- Ulrika


## Agenda

1. Standing items: 
    * Actions from previous meetings
    * Update on funding proposals
    * Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    * Next workshop
    * Consortium agreement
2.	Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)

## Action items from Last Meeting
- ESA InCubed (https://incubed.esa.int/)
    - All: proto-steering group members are encouraged to look at the call and see if it would fit - closed now as time has expired.
- UK national funding possibilities
    - Alistair to try to find out what is happening - will keep open as discussion is ongoing.
- Next location of the hybrid workshop in spring 2025
    - Axel, Birgit: check with Bremen if they can host - ongoing.
- Possible changes to the ESGF package (esgf-pyclient)
    - Alistair to chat with Matthew Mizielinski (WIP) about this - ongoing.
    - Birgit to keep an eye open to raise this concern within the framework of the Model Benchmarking Task Team - ongoing.
- Governance checklist
    - Alistair to make sure it is on the workshop agenda and a prior action to make sure we discuss this a steering group meeting (the one scheduled in September) - for this to be on November workshop agenda.
    - All: looking through the checklist to have input for the steering group meeting where this will be discussed
    - Ranjini to put it forward at the September community meeting
- Proposal to change frequency and length of the proto-steering group meeting
    - Alistair to update the meeting frequency (next meeting on July 16th) - completed.
    
## Meeting notes
 - ESGF deprecation of CMIP3/CMIP5/Cordex CMIP5: 
     - This data will not be available through ESGF from early next year. This will affect recipes that need CMIP3/CMIP5 data.
     - Should we remove this data from recipes or keep them for scientific continuity?
     - Scientific lead development team propose - keep archive of original recipes especially if used for publications.
     - This was also discussed at the Tech Lead meeting. See minutes [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Tech%20Lead/Minutes/20240702.md).
     -  Data will not necessarily be deleted but this is upto individual ESGF nodes. We don't know how such data might be accessible though.
     -  Conversion to make (selected) recipes work only with CMIP6 is an option.
     -  Action for Ranjini: expand on options to facilitate community discussion through a Discussion thread and add to agenda for next community meeting.
 - ECMWF stand alone fixes package:
     - Birgit to provide further updates on any discussions at next meeting.
 - ESiWACE3 funding :
     - Potentially propose for new funding for performance optimization for new call from a partner other than DLR. Should start discussion in September so will include this as a discussion item for the next meeting.

### Consortium agreement (CA)
- Ongoing discussions.

### Funding proposals
- Horizon Europe Africa proposal - not funded.
- ESA CLIMATE SPACE call - 
    - Looking at partners from satellite community side.
    - Starting to plan work packages, resources and time schedule now.
    - Template created in Google docs - input requested from all involved.    
    - Learning from recent proposal feedback - 
        - more emphasis on coordination and structure to be placed.
        - decision to wait for the formal call to come out to see how best to address requirements.
 - Google climate benchmarking : Discussions on if we can partner with known groups targetting this and how that might be possible. Also to coordinate with AI4PEX project to identify gaps in evaluation for ML used in models.
- European funding opportunities in 2025 - ongoing.
- UK national funding - ongoing.


### Next Workshop
- Next workshop hosted by the UK Met Office to be held remotely Nov 19th - 21st.

### Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
 - See input from Tech meeting on ESGF CMIP5/CMIP3/CORDEX-CMIP5 deprecation above.

### Governance checklist (copied as is from previous meeting) since we didnâ€™t discuss in this meeting
- https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/
- Provides information about "lessons-learned" from other software packages
- Would be good to go over this checklist to see if we need to update our own governance; might be a good idea to discuss this at the next workshop
    - Alistair to make sure it is on the workshop agenda and a prior action to make sure we discuss this a steering group meeting (in the September meeting)
    - All: looking through the checklist to have input for the steering group meeting where this will be discussed
- bring this up at a monthly community meeting before the workshop so that more people can chime in if they want
    - Ranjini to put it forward at the September community meeting


## Actions log resulting from this meeting
- ESiWACE3 funding (see Meeting Notes above for including a discussion item for next meeting)
- Ranjini: start discussion thread and add to agenda for next monthly meeting a discussion on ESGF plans to deprecate CMIP5/Cordex data from early next year.
- Birgit : to provide further updates on any discussions on ECMWF fixes package at next meeting.
- Axel and Birgit: to check if U.Bremen can host next hybrid workshop in Spring 2025.
- Alistair: to chat with Matthew Mizielinski (WIP)  about possible changes to the ESGF package (esgf-pyclient)
- Birgit: to raise this concern (ESGF package esgf-pyclient) within the framework of the Model Benchmarking Task Team.
- Ranjini: to add governance checklist discussion as an agenda item for the September community meeting.

## Remaining backlog of agenda items

* discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time
* September - prep for governance checklist discussion at November workshop
* UK national funding possibilities with UKNCSP.


