# 2024-03-19 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Alistair
- Romain
- Axel
- Saskia


Apologies:
- Birgit
- Ranjini
- Bouwe


## Agenda

1. Standing items: 
    * Actions from previous meetings
    * Update on funding proposals
    * Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    * Next workshop
    * Consortium agreement
1. Timing of these meetings, now that Romain is attending.
1. Axel: Strategy of reclassifying tier 3 datasets to tier 2 for which we have permission from the data providers to do so



## Action items from Last Meeting


1. Alistair to invite ACCESS-NRI to the proto-steering group
    - Complete: Romain Beucher will be ACCESS-NRI's representative
3. Everyone: ESMValTool Strategy document: everyone to provide input to the document.
4. Birgit to propose to Forrest that Ag and Carsten are invited to the next fixes meeting with Carlo, et al.
    - Ongoing. From Birgit: We had two more meetings with Carlo Buontempo and his team. In the first one they showed interest in the ideas that Bouwe and Ag (and Carsten) had worked on already, and so they asked if they could get a brief summary of these ideas. Bouwe has iterated a document with Ag and others to describe the ideas and has sent it to Carlo and Anca. We have discussed this a little more in the meeting this week, and the plan now is to see how the idea could develop.
5. Birgit to ask Klaus about SMHI representative on steering group
    - Complete: Ulrika Willen will be SMHI's representative
7. Alistair to schedule a meeting to write proposal guidance. (Please see [discussion notes](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/proto-Steering%20Group/Minutes/20240227.md#updates-from-esmvaltool-and-wider-community-discussions) when working on this action item.)
    - Ongoing: doodle sent
9. Axel: gather input to prepare agenda for spring workshop
   - Discussion opened in the [Community repository](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/141)
10. Axel: move no-longer active members discussion forward
    - Discussion opened in  the [Community repository](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/151)
12. Alistair to publish notes from previous proto-Steering group meetings
    - Complete: https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/proto-Steering%20Group/README.md

## Meeting notes

### Strategy document
- Alistair shared the document with ESA in order to develop a proposal
### Strategy to reclassify Tier3 datasets as Tier2 for which data providers gave permission
- Axel proposes to think about moving the Tier3 datasets to Tier2 for which we have permission from the dataset providers and to patch the 'tier' attribute in the already CMORized netCDFs. 
- To keep the changes backward compatible, symbolic links for Tier3 could be added pointing to the datasets moved to Tier2. 
- Optionally, the core could be made more flexible so in case no dataset is found in Tier3, it looks automatically in Tier2. 
- The 'tier' attributes in the configuration files for the CMORization scripts for these datasets need to be updated. 
- The documentation should be updated in order to clarify what Tier2 datasets are, e.g. say that not all of them are freely available. 
- If the core is made more flexible (see above), datasets with the same name should not be allowed to be in Tier2 and at the same time in Tier3. 
- Continue discussion when Bouwe is available. 
### Next Workshop's agenda
- There is already one proposal on automatically generated recipes. But more topics are needed to build an agenda.
-  Everyone in this group should try to think of topics to discuss or topics to code to come up with a draft agenda. Input is requested by the end of March.
### No-longer active members policy
- To decide and possibly enact the 'no-longer active members' policy at the next workshop.
### Funding proposals
- EU Africa proposal with partners from Cameroon and South Africa submitted. 
- ESA proposal, waiting for the ITT to come out. 
- There might be funding on a German national call to prepare for CMIP7 (CMIP7-DICAD). 
- Regarding CMIP7, there is some lobbying for a european commision call in 2025. 
- [Incubed ESA](https://incubed.esa.int/) call: more targeted towards commercial partners
### Regular update on the consortium agreement 
- A draft was accepted by nearly all partners. After introducing changes, the wording is now problematic for other partners, legal conversation is ongoing.
### Timing of the meetings
- We agreed to keep the current schedule
## Actions log resulting from this meeting
- Alistair to send the link to the ESMValTool Strategy document
- Everyone to think of topics for the [ESMValTool May workshop agenda](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/141). Deadline for ideas is end of March. Axel to share a draft agenda in early April.

## Remaining backlog of agenda items
1. Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)
1. Axel: Strategy of reclassifying tier 3 datasets to tier 2 for which we have permission from the data providers to do so
1. Discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time

