# 2024-06-04 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Alistair
- Axel
- Birgit
- Bouwe
- Saskia
- Romain
- Ulrika
- Ranjini

Apologies:
- n/a


## Agenda

1. Standing items: 
    * Actions from previous meetings
    * Update on funding proposals
    * Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    * Next workshop
    * Consortium agreement
2.	Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)
3.	Meeting frequency: proposal to reduce to every other month.


## Action items from Last Meeting

- Alistair to send the link to the ESMValTool Strategy document 
    - done
- All to consider inCubed funding opportunity
    - done



## Meeting notes



### Consortium agreement (CA)

- Still waiting for partners to confirm the document
- Trying to get lawyers together from three institutes (probably in a Teams meeting) to get some problems with the CA wording resolved 


### Funding proposals

- Waiting for ESA CLIMATE SPACE call to come out (expected in July); initial bidding time will be six weeks, but will most likely be extended; they will fund projects that are 24-36 months long, and cover 0.5 to 1.5 Mio Euro
- ESA InCubed (https://incubed.esa.int/)
    -  proto-steering group members are encouraged to look at the call and see if it would fit
- No news from the Horizon Europe Africa proposal yet
- New European funding possibilities probably available in 2025; ESMValTool could sit in the theme about infrastructure improvements
- it has been quiet around the UK national funding possibilities; no actual funding available yet for CMIP AR7 Fast Track contributions
    - Alistair to try to find out what is happening


### Next Workshop

- Next workshop in fall will be remote (organized by the Met Office)
- Doodle was sent around; many participants have already added their vote but there is still time to indicate the availability
- Final decision on the dates will be released in one to two weeks
- Would be good to get started to think about the next location of the hybrid workshop in spring 2025
    - Axel, Birgit: check with Bremen if their offer is indeed a valid offer

### Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions

- Welcome to Ulrika and short introductions of the other proto-steering group members
- Birgit reported about the Rapid Evaluation Framework that will be proposed to the CMIP Panel soon; there might be an opportunity for a technical developer to be involved in establishing the framework
- Ranjini mentioned that we have to keep in mind that new experiments are suggested for the new CMIP AR7 Fast Track, and also new processes were added to the models; this needs to be taken into account when simulations are evaluated and ESMValTool needs to be ready
- Bouwe mentioned that possible changes to the [ESGF REST API](https://esgf.github.io/esg-search/ESGF_Search_RESTful_API.html) (which we are using through the [esgf-pyclient](https://github.com/ESGF/esgf-pyclient) package) that we use to find data with ESMValTool might affect our capability to find and download data from ESGF automatically
- It is not clear if esgf-pyclient will be maintained/updated to support the new API, successor packages might be [STAC](https://github.com/cedadev/stac-notebooks/blob/main/stac-api-example.ipynb) and [intake-esgf](https://github.com/esgf2-us/intake-esgf)
    - Alistair to chat with Matthew Mizielinski (WIP) about this
    - Birgit to keep an eye open to raise this concern within the framework of the Model Benchmarking Task Team

### Governance checklist
- https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/
- Provides information about "lessons-learned" from other software packages
- Would be good to go over this checklist to see if we need to update our own governance; might be a good idea to discuss this at the next workshop
    - Alistair to make sure it is on the workshop agenda and a prior action to make sure we discuss this a steering group meeting (in the September meeting)
    - All: looking through the checklist to have input for the steering group meeting where this will be discussed
- bring this up at a monthly community meeting before the workshop so that more people can chime in if they want
    - Ranjini to put it forward at the September community meeting

### Frequency/length of the proto-steering group meetings
- suggestion: reduced the frequency of the meetings to every two months since there is not so much to discuss anymore and it is hard to get everybody together due to the increased number of members
- Bouwe suggested to reduce the time of the meeting to one hour
- Proposal was accepted in both parts (reduced frequency and length)
- 11am Europe time/10am UK time (one hour duration)
    - Alistair to update the meeting frequency (next meeting on July 16th)

## Actions log resulting from this meeting
- ESA InCubed (https://incubed.esa.int/)
    - All: proto-steering group members are encouraged to look at the call and see if it would fit
- UK national funding possibilities
    - Alistair to try to find out what is happening
- Next location of the hybrid workshop in spring 2025
    - Axel, Birgit: check with Bremen if their offer to host this is indeed a valid offer
- Possible changes to the ESGF package (esgf-pyclient)
    - Alistair to chat with Matthew Mizielinski (WIP) about this
    - Birgit to keep an eye open to raise this concern within the framework of the Model Benchmarking Task Team
- Governance checklist
    - Alistair to make sure it is on the workshop agenda and a prior action to make sure we discuss this a steering group meeting (the one scheduled in September)
    - All: looking through the checklist to have input for the steering group meeting where this will be discussed
- Checklist added to a monthly community meeting before the workshop
    - Ranjini to put it forward at the September community meeting
- Proposal to change frequency and length of the proto-steering group meeting
    - Alistair to update the meeting frequency (next meeting on July 16th)


## Remaining backlog of agenda items


* discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time
