# 2024-12-10 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Birgit Hassler (chair)
- Alistair Sellar
- Axel Lauer
- Bouwe Andela (notes)
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Julien Lenhardt
- Saskia Loosveldt Tomas


## Agenda

1. Standing items:
    * Actions from previous meetings
    * Update on funding proposals
    * Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    * Next workshop
    * Consortium agreement
1. Dedicated note taker
1. Monthly community meetings
1. Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)

## Action items from Last Meeting
- ESiWACE3 funding (see previous meeting notes for background).
    - Two upcoming service calls, one early next year (work likely done by DKRZ) and one in spring
- Birgit: to provide further updates on any discussions with ECMWF on fixes package.
    - No news from ECMWF, but will be discussed at scoping meeting for next year's EU project
- Axel and Birgit: to check if U.Bremen can host next hybrid workshop in Spring 2025.
    - Workshop will be held at DLR
    - An organizing committee will be formed, Alistair interested in joining, interested people can contact Axel and Birgit
- Ranjini: to add governance checklist discussion as an agenda item for the September community meeting.
    - Community meeting did not happen

## Meeting notes

### Consortium agreement (CA)

Update by Alistair
- 5 out of 6 consortium members have now signed, looking great!
- It would be good to start on a developing roadmap/common view of the future for the tool
    - Agree principles and then practicalities
- Post-meeting note (11 Dec): all parties have now signed! The ESMValTool consortium formally exists!

Alistair will propose a list of topics to agree how the steering group will work, for agendas of the coming steering group meeting. Input from the rest of the team welcome. For example:
- Principles and practicalities of 1 FTE commitment
- Annual report: is a requirement of the consortium agreement, and may be a means of encoding the above
- Shared work plan / roadmap: principles, format, cycle of updating
- Guest members / observer status
- Process for making decisions

### Dedicated secretary

Alistair: it would be nice to have a regular minute taker. Everyone agrees. Chris volunteered to do it until May and Alistair expects he may be able to find another minute taker after that.

Responsibilities of secretary:
 - Liaise with co-PIs by email before each meeting to agree the agenda
 - Attend Steering Group meetings and record decisions and actions in hackmd
 - Circulate minutes by email after the meeting, and upload to GitHub once approved


### Update on funding proposals

- ESiWACE3: previous service project was very successful in optimizing computational performance. There will be an opportunity to submit another proposal early next year (work likely performed by HPC expert at DKRZ) and another opportunity in spring. We decided to wait for the spring call. More information here: https://www.esiwace.eu/services/software-support/esiwace3-call-for-proposals-s1
- Funding opportunity: Horizon Europe soon-to-be-call - scoping meeting on Dec 16/17 in Paris. Birgit will attend and present ESMValTool related topics.

### Monthly community meetings

It looks like Paul might not continue to organize the monthly community meetings: https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/191. If so, it would be nice to find a replacement.
ACTION: Ranjini to check with Paul if he is indeed no longer able to organize them


### Actions log resulting from this meeting

- Alistair to propose a list of topics to agree how the steering group will work, for agendas of the coming steering group meeting. Input from the rest of the team welcome.
- Monthly community meetings
    - Ranjini to check with Paul if he is indeed no longer able to organize them
    - Birgit to check with Tina and Romain if they would be willing to host them, perhaps alternating between different time zones