# 2024-05-07 Proto-steering group meeting

Present:
- Alistair
- Axel
- Birgit
- Bouwe
- Saskia

Apologies:
- Ranjini
- Romain
- Ulrika

## Agenda

1. Standing items: 
    * Actions from previous meetings
    * Update on funding proposals
    * Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    * Next workshop
    * Consortium agreement
2. Remaining backlog of agenda items
    * Governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)
    * Discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time

## Action items from Last Meeting

- Alistair to send the link to the ESMValTool Strategy document
- Everyone to think of topics for the [ESMValTool May workshop agenda](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/141) - Deadline for ideas is end of March. Axel to share a draft agenda in early April.
    - Complete: agenda available in [Community repository](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/162)
- Birgit to propose to Forrest that Ag and Carsten are invited to the next fixes meeting with Carlo, et al.
    - Still ongoing. No news yet, next meeting in June.
- Alistair to schedule a meeting to write proposal guidance. (Please see [discussion notes](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/proto-Steering%20Group/Minutes/20240227.md#updates-from-esmvaltool-and-wider-community-discussions) when working on this action item.)
    - Ongoing: doodle sent
- Axel: gather input to prepare agenda for spring workshop
   - Complete, agenda available in [Community repository](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/162)
- Axel: move no-longer active members discussion forward
    - Discussion opened in the [Community repository](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/151)
    - Decision and possible enaction at workshop

## Meeting notes

### Consortium agreement

- more changes are needed as previous changes created new challenges, legal teams are in contact
- might need a video call including legal teams

### Workshop

- additional topics:
  - implementation of new [linter and formatting tool](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) (discussion in tech lead team)
  - Python 3.12 support currently difficult because of incompatibilities with NCL and prospector on conda-forge channel
- registration still open until 8 May 2024
- meeting rooms at DLR reserved
- hybrid part will be via Zoom
- agenda almost finalized
- items from the proto-steering group to be discussed at the workshop
  - observational datasets: change from tier 3 to tier 2
  - inactive user policy

### Strategy document

- writing sessions will be resumed at a later stage
- clean up document next week for people to provide comments and feedback

### Funding proposals

- waiting for ESA CLIMATE SPACE call to come out
- ESA InCubed (https://incubed.esa.int/)
- proposal submitted for involvment in German CMIP7 activities with ESMValTool

### Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions

- successful ESMValTool splinter meeting at EGU 2024, about 20 people attending
- application for Helmholtz incubator software award still pending
- Enter-Award (iRights.Lab open software award): application submitted
- eScience Center Research Software Award received for ESMValTool!
- paper on (new) capabilities for model benchmarking and monitoring to be submitted soon
- ideas for more documentation papers welcome (e.g. CORDEX work, optimization and CMIP7 readiness)!

## Actions log resulting from this meeting

- all: look at ESA InCubed funding opportunities (https://incubed.esa.int/)
- Alistair: post link to strategy document on [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/164)

## Remaining backlog of agenda items

* governance checklist: https://sustainers.github.io/governance-readiness/ (Bouwe to introduce)
* discuss practicalities for the 1 FTE commitment, recognizing that funding is unpredictable and variable in time
