# 8th cross-team meeting, 30 January 2023, 10-11am GMT/11am-12pm CET

## Agenda
### 1. Action items from last meeting

Actions from last meeting and discussion details:
| ID | Owner |Report & new status |
|-|-|-|
| 1.6 | Alistair | Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility. The document is deemed to be in good shape. Next steps are to review and accept suggested changes over the next two weeks or so and have it ready for the release. |
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant and Get a central GitHub account set up for CLA.|
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA | 
| 5.3 | Birgit | Create first draft of work plan using workshop notes (GitHub discussions). Birgit has now started the [discussion] (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3035)on Github. |
| 7.4 | Klaus | Get in contact with EC-Earth consortium regarding new Horizon Europe calls |
| 7.5 | all | Check Horizon Europe infrastructure call document for funding opportunities. Nothing of immediate of relevance just yet but it has been decided we will keep looking into this. |

2. ESMValTool workshops: We discussed having one in person (hybrid) and one online workshop this year and found the idea favorable. It was proposed to have the first one in May or June at SMHI, Sweden. Also to have a tutorial as part of the workshop.
 
3. Handling questions posted on GitHub the Discussions page: We discussed a strategy to ensure questions posted under Discussions would be answered in reasonable time. It was proposed to ask the User Engagement Team to have rota to check for any unanswered questions and tag teams or individuals who might best answer the questions.
4. Tutorials: There will be two basic tutorials conducted - one for NCEO in the UK and the other at DLR. We discussed having a tutorial as splinter group meeting at EGU but then thought it would stretch our resources. There was agreement to have atleast one tutorial for basics open to a general audience but for the first half of this year, the proposed sessions were considered sufficient. Plans for further tutorials scheduled for discussion at the workshop. It was decided to propose to the User Engagement Team that they have a release schedule in tandem with the ESMValTool releases to update the tutorial and formally liase with the release manager to do this.

5. Date of next meeting: 27th March 2023 (10-11am GMT and 11am-12pm CET)


## Action log from this meeting:

| ID | Owner | Action |
|-|-|-|
| 1.6 | Alistair | Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility |
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant and Get a central GitHub account set up for CLA |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA | 
| 5.3 | Birgit | Create first draft of work plan using workshop notes (GitHub discussions). Birgit has now started the [discussion] (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3035)on Github
| 7.4 | Klaus | Get in contact with EC-Earth consortium regarding new Horizon Europe calls |
| 7.5 | all | Check Horizon Europe infrastructure call document for funding opportunities |
| 8.1 | | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss with User Engagement Team about a formal liaison to coordinate tutorial updates with releases. |
| 8.2 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss having a rota in the User Engagement Team for tagging questions posed in the GitHUb Discussions page. | 
| 8.3 | Birgit | Discuss strategy for Reanalysis data. | 





