# ESMValTool Workshop Nov 24-26<sub>th</sub> 2020 : User Engagement Team 

## Discussion Points

1. Publicity and User Engagement   
  a. Where to advertise ESMValTool and the tutorial? Should we advertise?  
  b. How to keep track of usage statistics?    
  c. How to announce changes and updates made to the tutorial?  
  d. How do we communicate within the user engagement team?  

2. Desired Additions to the ESMValTool Tutorial - to be discussed on the 25th?
3. Github Installation -- added as an issue to new project.
4. New Observational data sets inclusion -- added as an issue to new project.
5. How to add fixes to existing model data (for e.g. with specific variables)?
6. How to parse the Python dictionary which results from the preprocessor within the diagnostic? -- added as an issue to new project.
7. Possible guidelines for new users to integrate their existing diagnostics with ESMValTool?-- added as an issue to new project.
8. Including data sets with the tutorial - small in size yet diverse.-- added to new project.
9. Add instructor notes/material like introductory slide decks
10. Desired Additions/Changes to the documentation  
   a. Pinning pages on available datasets and preprocessors?  
   b. Documentation for new users whose name or project is not included in the config-references file?   
   c. Also how to add a new project? (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/28)  

11. Wishlist for/from Users   
  a. Data Finder Tool : https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/31  
  b. Jupyter Notebooks for ESMValTool -- to be discussed on the 26th?  
  c. Land Surface diagnostics - to include a wider range so more people from this area actively use ESMValTool.  

