# User Engagement Meeting @ Advanced Tutorial Sprint Feb 9<sup>th</sup> 2021 

## Attendees 
@alistairsellar, 
@rémi-kazeroni, 
Barbara, 
@rswamina, 
@hb326, 
@SarahAlidoost, 
@peterkalvera, 
@nielsdrost

## Agenda
1. During the “advanced tutorial sprint” we held a meeting to discuss the User Engagement Team, and plans for the coming time.
In this meeting it was decided that Ranjini will lead the user engagement team this year. The user engagement team will host regular 
meetings (probably every two months), with meeting notes in this document.

2. First item on the agenda for the next meeting is to come up with a list of responsibilities for the user engagement team, 
as a more concrete version of the list in the ESMValTool governance document.

3. Ideas for discussion / decision at future meetings:  
  a. Develop a document to formalise how tutorials will run. For consistency & to make sure that tutorials cover the essentials.
  b. Some standard slides for scientists to include in their talks - make them publicly available.  
  c. Additional people on the twitter feed  
  d. Who maintains the website. Should it move to GitHub?  
  e. Should we have an email alias for the general public to contact us in case of tutorial organization, outreach etc?  
  f. There is a strong need for project funding for user engagement - we sometimes include more technical & science work than user engagement - 
  this was recognized and is added here so we keep track of this point in future meetings and include in proposals as possible.  

## Action Points:
1. @rswamina:  plan the next meeting
2. @remi-kazeroni: Create a user engagement team mailing list - it was decided to make the list private and membership only with approval.

