# User Engagement Meeting November 23<sup>rd</sup> 2021   

# Attendees: 
@SarahAlidoost, 
@alistairsellar, 
@hb326,
@rswamina, 
@LisaBock, 
@valeriupredoi, 
Alejandro Bodas, 
Tamzin, 
@ledmLee, 
@breisolino, 
@ehogan

## Agenda:

1. Revisit tutorial revisions - with v2.4 released some of the changes now have to be incorporated in the tutorial as well, 
so best to freshly outline everything that needs doing for the tutorial and where possible to assign tasks to members.  
  a. New features added - e.g. downloading data from ESGF  
  b. Backward incompatible changes - e.g. title in recipe  
2. Set out a plan to keep the tutorial updated with the releases/active recipes etc.
3. Updates regarding documentation rewrite.
4. We are keeping track of tutorials and presentations but how do we collect and maintain information regarding groups/projects that use ESMValTool. 
See GitHub issue [#2426](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/2426).
5. Any pending action items from the previous meeting.
6. @SarahAlidoost talk about [FAIR4RS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/fair-4-research-software-fair4rs-wg) and [subgroups on adoptions](https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/fair-research-software-fair4rs-wg/post/join-new-subgroups-fair4rs-adoption), 
this is a follow up on my talk at the session "Applying the FAIR principles to software" in the workshop on sustainable 
software sustainability https://wosss.org/wosss21-home/ 

# Minutes and Action Items:
1. We came up with a plan to keep the tutorial updated with future ESMValTool releases:  
   a. Versioning the tutorial - tutorial version specifies which version of ESMValTool the code in the tutorial and the recipes are compatible with.  
   b. Updating tutorial with release candidates for ESMValTool/Core so that the tutorial gets updated as much as possible alongside changes in ESMValTool/Core. 
   The user engagement team will have to plan this keeping in mind the schedule for releases.  
   c. Creating a release schedule for the tutorial with a new version of the tutorial being released roughly two weeks after the ESMValTool release.  
   d. Where possible request the Technical team to open an issue and tag us when a new interesting feature is added to the tutorial. 
      @rswamina to ask @zklaus to pass this request on to the Technical team.
2. Current updates to the tutorial for ESMValTool v2.4 : @rswamina, @LisaBock to work on changes related to   
  a. Anything broken (recipes/code) in the tutorial wrt v2.4 that urgently needs patching.    
  b. Incorporating feedback from tutorial users including typos/better instructions etc.  
  c. If possible, adding new features from v2.4 as new chapters/sections.  
  d. @SaraAlidoost/@ehogan to help with pull requests and any software questions.  
  e.  V to set up Github actions to automate testing of recipes in tutorial. 

3. Updates to the documentation:  
  a. New student at DLR hired to make changes to the documentation. Student will be supervised by Birgit and Lisa but we can all give 
  input on what they will work on to change in the documentation. Birgit will email us when the student starts in December for our input.  
  b. Some changes we had in mind for the documentation:   
      i. Basic checks like broken links etc
      ii. Content editing  
      iii. Checking command line instructions and ensuring they work.  
      iv. We should add a note to the Licence subsection in the documentation page and a checkbox in the check list for pull requests to contact 
    the user engagement team about your paper so it can be tweeted.  
      v. Adding  information about all teams in the docs page.  
      vi. Move the support section to the top level of the page .  
 
4. @SarahAlidoost to engage with [FAIR4RS](https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/fair-4-research-software-fair4rs-wg) and participate as a representative of 
ESMValTool once they give us an idea of the time commitment required. If we want to participate and if this requires more than one person, @SarahAlidoost 
will contact the Technical team for participation.
5. A couple of ideas were floated to track and record funded projects and groups that use ESMValtool:  
  a. Via forks/branches.  
  b. By sending out a survey to the email list/github community etc. and request information.  



