# User Engagement Meeting June 29<sup>th</sup> 2021 

## Attendees : 
@bsolino, 
@rswamina, 
@hb326, 
@ledm, 
@SarahAlidoost, 
@LisaBock, 
@catherinehardacre, 
@alistairsellar, 
@ehogan  

## Apologies : 
@remi-kazeroni, Tamzin, @nielsdrost

## Agenda:

1. @SarahAlidosst: I want to talk about item 2.b from the previous meeting, and am looking for a speaker in a workshop. 
The session "Applying the FAIR principles to software" in the workshop on sustainable software sustainability https://wosss.org/wosss21-home/ 

2. Action items from the last meeting:
   a. @SarahAlidoost: Look into the Carpentries guidelines (Link?) and see what we would need to improve.
      The lesson template does adhere to good practices. However, we can make sure that: 
       i. use image "alt" argument for screen reader friendly text description of the image. HTML <img> tag has an "alt" argument that is used when the 
       image cannot be rendered or when the screen reader is used. 
       ii. text better than images, when possible.  
       iii.stick to colour blind safe colours.  
   b. @peterkalvera Check out the page with a viewer (https://www.webaccessibility.com/,  https://wave.webaim.org/  to show problems -   
   c. @rswamina : Connect to tutorial trail users - done -- we need to have a strategy create some action items for this below.     
   d. @nielsdrost: Add a new users section on the Discussion with “new user questions” and answers. - done.  
   e. @rswamina: Add some new-user questions to the Discussions - done and ongoing.  
   f. @SarahAlidoost: Add some hints on asking questions to the tutorial - done.  
   g. [?]: Add some hints on asking questions to the readthedocs -- who will do this?  
   h. @hb326,@nielsdrost: Create a few standard slides for ESMValTool, put them on the website   
   i. @hb326: Add Funding (in general) to the agenda for the workshop  
   j. @nielsdrost: Add a past record of tutorials and presentation to the website  
   k. @nielsdrost, @hb326, @axel-lauer : Discuss migrating the website from DLR to GitHub  
   l. @rswamina: Create a shared OneDrive folder for everyone to be able to put slides at all -- done, we have a few talks there. 
   Please request access if you don’t have it already.
   m. @nielsdrost,@remi-kazeroni: connect to the IS-ENES workshop organizers and ESMValTool contributors on if we should provide any input from the user 
   requirements team
   n. @rswamina: Create a Doodle for the next meeting - done!!  
   o. [All] From the Workshop : need for the whole team to discuss a strategy for the User Engagement Team and what we will focus on. Reference governance document here (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CGMIj69pGl3GiTOU1at2NY01blYouVX0WmHVvCXrvvs/edit#heading=h.i2ji9aljyg44)  
   p. [All] : We need to nominate one person to interact with the other two teams (technical and scientific) so we all stay connected -- since no one volunteered, @rswamina has agreed to it!  


3. Updates regarding talks etc.
   a. @rswamina and @alistairsellar - talked to scientists from the LaunchPad project (climate diagnostics for Africa) . 
   With some support from the UK Met Office, we are likely to get some of their diagnostics into ESMValTool.   
   b. @rswamina and @alistairsellar : Gave a talk introducing the User Engagement Team at the UK Met Office - we have 2 new members joining our team now from 
   the Met Office - @ehogan and Tamzin Palmer.  
   c. rswamina : A follow up project to the ACCLIMATE project (UK Newton Fund/Brazil Climate Science for Service Partnership) has received 
   funding and will be called ACCLIMATE FD (for Fires and Drought). They will be developing diagnostics in ESMValTool.  
   d. @rswamina: Gave a lightning talk on ESMValTool for a COP26 Hackathon  Energy and Climate group in the UK. 
   Looks like they decided not to use ESMValTool since no one contacted us after that.  


## Action Items

1. @remi-kazeroni to make the UET list address visible in tutorial and documentation (ReadTheDocs). Also on the website if possible.
2. @SarahAlidoost to email UET & Tech Lead Development Team mailing lists to see if anyone would like to talk about ESMValTool at 
sustainable software conference.
3. @hb326 to add a support section at the top level in ReadTheDocs (essentially move it up a section).
4. @rswamina to set up (and share with the team) a table to link to ESMValTool presentations that can be added to the website when ready.
5. @SarahAlidoost & @rswamina to categorise the tutorial feedback issues and bring them to the next UET meeting with the goal of distributing them to users
@rswamina to set up doodle poll for a September meeting




