# User Engagement Meeting April 23<sup>rd</sup> 2021 

## Attendees: 
@rswamina, 
@bsolino, 
@SarahAlidoost, 
@ledm, 
@LisaBock, 
@peterkalvera, 
@remi-kazeroni, 
@neilsdrost, 
@hb326

## Agenda:

1. Action items from the Feb meeting: Both Done :-)
2. Tutorial :   
  a. Tutorial is more or less done. There are 3 test users, and a decent list of other people interested.  
  b. How should people get in touch that do not have a GitHub account?  We have a mailing list for these questions, 
  we can encourage people to ask on the Discussions  
  c. Accessibility: How would we make the documentation more accessible? Perhaps we can start with the tutorials by seeing what the carpentries do.
3. Some standard slides for scientists to include in their talks - make them publicly available.
   a.  @hb326 has quite a few slides, she can distill one or perhaps two standard slides
4. There is a strong need for project funding for user engagement - we sometimes include more technical & science work than user engagement - 
  this was recognized and is added here so we keep track of this point in future meetings and include in proposals as possible.
  a. Funding is currently an open topic led by @alistairsellar. Veronika is also a great source of ideas, but hard to get into a meeting :-) 
   There is an open discussion slot during the workshop where we can talk about this.
5. Any items to raise at the workshop.
  a.Please put any items you come up with here, and suggestion them in the workshop issue  
6. Good practices to incorporate feedback into the tutorial -  raising issues for individual suggestions to be discussed and implemented, email to user engagement group?
   a. How do we record suggestions to the tutorial? We decided to record them as issues in the tutorial  
7. AOB  
  a. @hb326 was asked to present ESMValTool at DSNE in Lancaster. Feedback was positive, some new users (might be) incoming :-)   
  b. @hb326 was asked to present ESMValTool at the DLR Institute for Solar-Terrestrial Physics. Feedback up until now is even more positive :-) 
  c. Website: Would we want a collection for slides? Also we need to keep track of tutorials and presentations given.  
  d. IS-ENES Workshop on evaluation requirements.  


## Action Points
1. @SarahAlidoost: Look into the Carpentries guidelines (Link?) and see what we would need to improve.
   The lesson template does adhere to good practices. However, we can make sure that: 
   use image "alt" argument for screen reader friendly text description of the image. HTML <img> tag has an "alt" argument that is used when the image cannot be rendered or when the screen reader is used. 
   text better than images, when possible. stick to colour blind safe colours.
2. @peterkalvera: Check out the page with a viewer (https://www.webaccessibility.com/,  https://wave.webaim.org/  to show problems.
3. @rswamina: Connect to tutorial trail users
4. @nielsdrost: Add a new users section on the Discussion with “new user questions” and answers.
5. @rswamina: Add some new-user questions to the Discussions
6. @SarahAlidoost: Add some hints on asking questions to the tutorial
7. [?]: Add some hints on asking questions to the readthedocs
8. @hb326,@nielsdrost: Create a few standard slides for ESMValTool, put them on the website
9. @hb326: Add Funding (in general) to the agenda for the workshop
10. @nielsdrost: Add a past record of tutorials and presentation to the website
11. @nielsdrost,@hb326,@axel-lauer: Discuss migrating the website from DLR to GitHub
12. @rswamina: Create a shared OneDrive folder for everyone to be able to put slides at all.
13. @nielsdrost,@remi-kazeroni: connect to the IS-ENES workshop organizers and ESMValTool contributors on if we should provide any input from the user requirements team
14. @rswamina: Create a Doodle for the next meeting
15. [All] From the Workshop : need for the whole team to discuss a strategy for the User Engagement Team and what we will focus on. Reference governance document here (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CGMIj69pGl3GiTOU1at2NY01blYouVX0WmHVvCXrvvs/edit#heading=h.i2ji9aljyg44)
16. [All] : We need to nominate one person to interact with the other two teams (technical and scientific) so we all stay connected.

