# User Engagement Meeting Sep 6<sup>th</sup> 2021 

# Attendees: 
@rswamina, @ledm, @LisaBock, @hb326, Tamzin, @bsolina, @bouweandela, @alistairsellar

# Apologies: 
@ehogan

# Agenda:
1. Action items from last meeting:

a. @remi-kazeroni to make the UET list address visible in tutorial and documentation (ReadTheDocs). Also on the website if possible.  
b. @SarahAlidoost to email UET & Tech Lead Development Team mailing lists to see if anyone would like to talk about ESMValTool at sustainable 
      software conference -- done  
c. @hb326 to add a support section at the top level in ReadTheDocs (essentially move it up a section).  
d. @rswamina to set up (and share with the team) a table to link to ESMValTool presentations that can be added to the website when ready --  
   2  tables created and partially populated at the bottom of this document, one for talks/presentations and one for tutorials. These are now moved [here] 
   (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community)
e. @SarahAliDoost & @rswamina to categorise the tutorial feedback issues and bring them to the next UET meeting with the goal of distributing them to 
   users -- We created 3 projects and included feedback received so far as issues under them. The plan is to get these resolved with others’  
   help before our next meeting.  
2. Website: potential move to GitHub and requesting funding for doing this in IS-ENES3
3. Professionalizing our documentation: applying for season of docs (or alternatives)
4. Listing all teams on the website.
5. AOB  
a. Question from Emma (via Alistair): All tests on PR failing, which appear to be unrelated to the PR: https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool_Tutorial/pull/215#issuecomment-912522541 Is this expected? Why do tests include a recipe?

# Action Items:
1. Remi to make the UET list address visible in tutorial and documentation (ReadTheDocs). Also on the website if possible.  
2. Additions to the ReadtheDocs (documentation) page :
a. @bouweandela’s Agenda item above (#4) to list different teams so people can contact the right person/group for their queries on 
   ESMValTool -- @rswamina will create a Github issue so the ESMValTool community can decide what we want to list in the Readthedocs page.  
b. Twitter notifications when a paper using ESMValTool is published -- we should add a note to the Licence subsection in the documentation 
   page and a checkbox in the check list for pull requests to contact the user engagement team about your paper so it can be tweeted -- likely will be 
   done by @hb326?
c. @hb326 will ensure all of the above in the support/Licence sections are done  and move the support section to the top level of the 
   page as decided in the previous meeting.
3. @SarahAlidoost and @rswamina to continue to address tutorial feedback until the next meeting.
4. @valeriupredoi/@nielsdrost/@remi-kazeroni to be contacted about requesting funds from IS-ENES3 (this will require a few sentences of writing) 
   to move the website to GitHub - @rswamina to email on Monday (13th Sep to pick this up).
5. Important to make the documentation more professional (language etc.), easier to use, checks for links etc.  -- @hb326 to check with Veronica about 
   hiring an intern at DLR to do this. @hb326 and @LisaBock will track this. If this is not possible, we can investigate Google season of docs etc.
6. Twitter - @ledm/@hb326 and @rswamina have a calendar event (Thanks, @ledm!) to check ESMValTool citations among papers published on Google Scholar 
   once every 3 months or so, to post on our twitter feed.
7. With regards to @ehogan’s question on PR tests failing, @bouweandela suggested looking at the workflow to debug the error. @ehogan/@alistairsellar 
   will update us on this either with a Github issue or Discussion post so others may know what to do if this problem occurs.
8. We want to discuss how to keep the tutorial updated in tandem with ESMValTool releases . This will be on the list of things to be discussed at the 
   recipe testing meeting, and also the next UET meeting presumably at the Workshop. Automated testing with someone to check on the results 
   periodically was suggested but we’d have to consider the feasibility of that.
9. @rswamina to watch for the next ESMValTool Workshop announcement and request a time slot for a User Engagement Team meeting which could be 
   open to others in the community.


