# User Engagement Meeting February 21<sup>st</sup> 2022

## List of Attendees :

@ehogan
@LisaBock
@rswamina
@remi-kazeroni
@SarahAlidoost
@hb326
@bsolino
Tamzin,
Cristo

## Agenda:
1. Tutorial updates - lessons and UKCA tutorial session - rswamina
2. Documentation updates - @hb326 and Cristo
3. Setting up a tutorial-update schedule.

From last time   
4. Keeping track of groups that use ESMValTool.  
5. New user engagement team lead selection.  
6. Upcoming tutorials - UKCA  
AOB


## Minutes and Action Items:  
1. Tutorial -  (rswamina) Add a note that the tutorial is still under development and perhaps a note at the beginning of each lesson to say which 
version of the tool it is in sync with. We can also keep a feedback form open and provide a link for ongoing feedback.
2. Tutorial - Add to the readme where this tutorial is taught and what the feedback from participants was.    
3. Cristo may get an extension and it’s possible to organize the website a bit better if that happens. He showed us updates to the documentation page.
Progress is documented here. Cristo will also look through the previous minutes and see if any changes are to be made in the documentation based on our 
discussions.
4. @ehogan will send @rswamina and Cristo a couple of lines to add about the esmvaltool installation on the UK Met Office to add to the tutorial and 
readthedocs pages. @rswamina will add this to the tutorial and Cristo to the documentation.  
5. Update lessons on advanced topics - in time for UKCA tutorial (late March).  
  a. @rswamina and @paultgriffiths (who expressed interest in updating the tutorial after the UKCA tutorial session) will work on the installation lesson.  
  b. @LisaBock to work on adding a new diagnostic.  
  c. @remi-kazeroni to work on the new observations lesson after the release of v2.5.  
6. A central page for participating institutions – @remi-kazeroni to bring it up at the monthly meeting for discussion.  
7. Should we have a separate basic and an advanced tutorial? We may have issues with maintaining 2 repositories, so perhaps better to keep just one 
tutorial and  make clear at the beginning of an episode and in the first lesson where to go if you are a basic user vs a developer and to 
differentiate advanced topics from basic. @rswamina to make these changes in the tutorial.  
8. Keeping track of   
  a. who is using the documentation, which groups are using ESMValTool, which papers use ESMValTool,  
  b. How to tell people to cite the tool - maybe as part of tutorial training, we can also say we’d be happy to tweet their work or share slides 
  on ESMValTool for their talks etc.  
  c. Surveys, github resources - watch/fork/star etc, journal metrics and cross-ref tools.  
  d. Via forks/branches.  
  e. By sending out a survey to the email list/github community etc. and request information.  
  This is a topic that needs discussion in the monthly meeting - @rswamina will initiate a discussion in the UEG and once we have some ideas, 
  raise it in the monthly meeting group.
9. Since some of our team members could not make it to the meeting today, @rswamina will send email so we nominate the next user engagement team lead.
10. Upcoming tutorials - 4C project at DLR (@remi-kazeroni, @schlunma and @hb326), UKCA advanced topics (TBD), IS-ENES - Everyone who conducts the tutorial to please make 
sure feedback is collected (ask @rswamina for standard template) and add details to the table at the bottom of this document.
