# User Engagement Meeting - June 27<sup>th</sup> 2023

## List of Attendees : 
@remi-kazeroni, @ehogan, @SarahAlidoost, @rswamina, @breisolino, @LisaBock, @tepmo42

## Agenda

Agenda

1.	Release and compatibility with Tutorial (Lisa, Sarah, Rémi)

2.	Upcoming events: 
    
    1.	Tutorial at Workshop in Sweden (26th-30th June)    
    2.	RSE Conference 2023 in Swansea (4th-8th September)
    5.	Open tutorials? (all)

3.	Answering questions on GitHub Discussions (Ranjini)

4.	Survey to the user base (Sarah) 

5.	Short video and general presentation about ESMValTool: Status? (Birgit)

6.	Website (Lisa)

7.	Discussion on Obs data management (Ranjini)


8.	Open issues:
    1.	Adding guidelines to deliver different kinds of tutorials 
    2.	Adding episode about model simulation monitoring to the tutorial
    3.	Outdated issues

9.	New UET Lead (Tammy to take over)

10.	AOB



## Minutes and Action Items

1. Release: Well done, Rémi! 
   We advertised the release on the website, by email to the ESMValTool mailing list, on GitHub discussions and on Twitter


    **Sarah** has checked the tutorial. Some updates to be made at the ESMValTool workshop.   There are some extra features that would be nice to have
    adding an such as an episode about downloading data from ESGF, how change the configuration files, also an episode on the jupyter note book - **Ranjini**
    

2. Upcoming events:
   
   1.	RSE Conference 2023 in Swansea (4th-8th September): Emma is thinking about giving a presenation on  ESMValTool as open source software, FAIR software, ...  Emma would like someone to lool over the slides and give 
     some feedback. 

   2.	Birgit will present a poster on the WCRP open science conference in Kigali, hopefully get in contact with the African community

3. We should nominate one person from the UET who is in charge to check even once a week open questions on the GitHub discussions page.
   You should tag other persons, who are best to answer the question. This has proved to be useful and not too time consumming. 
   
   **AI:** **Lisa** will check open questions in July.  

4.	Survey: This is now ready as a draft.  We could then test the survey with a subset of people (Core teams 
    or a small group of one project)
    
    **AI:** Everyone to look at survey. ** Tammy** to email Juile Letton at the met office, we could trial the survey at the Met Office? 

5.	Birgit still working on video - this is ongoing, will keep on agenda. 

6. Website: The new website is online. Everyone should be able to add a PR. But only a small group should be allowed to merge PRs (for now: Ranjini,
   Emma, Sarah, Birgit, Remi, Lisa and Axel). Updating the website is needed.
   
   **AI:** **Remi**, **Thomas**  will make some updates at workshop. 
   
   **AI:** **Sarah** will check technical issues (e.g. README, licence, ...)
   
7. Ranjini reminded us on the discussion about the obs data management. All are requested to contribute.
 
   **AI:** **Ranjini and Remi** Will pick up action items to work on and report back next meeting - keep on agenda. 

9. For now there isn't a new UET lead.

   **AI:** **Tammy** new lead to create doodle poll for next meeting and write up minutes. 

10. AOB

- UET to take on creating a rota for the community meeting for someone to take on the agenda and write up minutes  - to be proposed at workshop.  **Remi** , **Ranjini** to discuss with the technical team. 

- Presentations and licencing issue: **AI** action how to share presentations and licencing for sharing slides. 
  **Ranjini**  to start drafting something for github.  e.g. that presentations are open source or a licence should be added.  Also check licence of anything that is added to a presentation. 

 - Website link to github repository needed? or a private respository?  Add to agenda for next time.  
