# User Engagement Meeting - January 20<sup>th</sup> 2023

## List of Attendees : 
@remi-kazeroni, @LisaBock, @hb326, @SarahAlidoost, @rswamina, @breisolino

## Agenda

1. Next release: 
   1. Advertising
   2. Assign 1-2 persons to check required updates regarding the recent release 
2. Upcoming events? 
   1. Open tutorials?
3. Answering questions on GitHub Discussions: Feedback from the Cross Team Meeting
4. Survey to the user base: status? 
5. Short video about ESMValTool: Status?
6. Do we want to use Slack?
7. Open issues:
   1. Adding general (short) presentation about ESMValTool (could be placed on the ESMValTool website) 
   2. Adding guidelines to deliver different kinds of tutorials 
   3. Adding episode about model simulation monitoring to the tutorial
   4. Outdated issues
8. AOB

## Minutes and Action Items

1. Next release:
   (Assigning 1-2 persons to advertise and check required updates of the tutorial regarding the recent release) 
   1. Advertising: We need a check list with all steps to do when there is a new release
   2. There is still an open issue reagarding the last release

   **[Lisa, Sarah]** prepare the first checklist and open issues for updates required in episodes  

2. Upcoming events:
   1. Ranjini will organize tutorial for people from NCO community on Jasmin (end of February, beginning of March)
   2. There could be an open tutorial on the EGU as splinter meeting (Birgit and Lisa will discuss that further)
   3. There is a DLR internal workshop for the sister department (14th February) about using ESMValTool with raw EMAC model data

3. Answering questions on GitHub Discussions
   We are waiting for feedback from the Cross Team Meeting

   **[Ranjini, Birigt]** will discuss in the next Cross Team Meeting

4. Survey to the user base:
   Bouwe is working on a survey, not for current ESMValTool users but for the community in climate science. 
   We need to create another survey for current ESMValTool users. And maybe also for ESMValTool starter who dropped out right away.
   
   **Sarah:** will draft the first questions
   
5. Short "advertising" video about ESMValTool: 
    
    **Birigt** will check possibilities resources with the Met Office
    
6. Do we want to use Slack?
   1. The Tech Lead Team uses Slack for daily comunication; it helps coordinating things and chatting; it is more effeicient then emailing.
   For now, we (UET) think that we would not need it. There is not that much daily communication in the UET.
   We agreed to set up from time to time a day for fixing/updating/enhancing the tutorial in future.
   2. We would not suggest to open Slack to all users for questions as there is not enough capacity to handle that. 

7. Adding a general (short) presentation about ESMValTool (could be placed on the ESMValTool website): 

   **Birgit** starts drafting slides


