# ESMValTool User Engagement Team Meeting  
## Agenda and meeting notes

1.	New UET members.  - Welcome to Roman Beucher and Rodger Edberg from ACCESS-NI
2.	ESMValTool tutorial – any updates needed, any features we would like to develop, is there funding available for this e.g. funding for training in Africa. 

Updates are still needed  - Ranjini to prepare a list. 
Lisa  - has a student helper also going through the tutorial – maybe able to do some simple fixes. 

Romain  - has a series of videos for ESMValTool workflow and we could link to these.  Also organising workshops and videos with more advanced examples. These could go in the github repository? 

Emma has some short videos  for her quick-start guide


3.	UET contributions to the Roadmap document
   
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YXuQfXjlz7HGQavx7yiJodT96R4O7QWyVTJxriCF3Ek/edit
Please all have a look and add any thoughts.

4.	EU proposal for funding training in Africa. 

Call from horizon Europe, improving existing systems – funding for ESMValTool work? Need 2 African partners – pre-existing.  Tutorials and to train software engineers. So can run, develop, use pull requests – Nick Savage is the contact. Chris Leonard – cordex Africa, S. African climate model, Cameroon – model bench marking team.  Contacting partners about what they would need? Training, workshop, help with implementation, advanced tutorial. 24th March. (1.5 million). Make funding available for African partners. Lots of user engagement – we at the UET to build awareness. Making ESMValTool more democratic. 


5.	Upcoming Events? 
Emma – UET email supporting an ocean workshop. 
 Jupyter notebook not working – just at MO? .
 Axel – Jupyter notebook – add example to tutorial. 
Romain – has run ESMValTool example in Jupyter notebook. 

6.	Open github questions – volunteers for NOV/ DEC  - Ranjini

7.	Website, any technical issues?  – Remi has left , any updates on new recruits?  

yes -  hopefully starting at beginning December. Worked at IPCC technical office. 


8.	Observation data management. – feedback from the github group - @Birgit, V, Axel , @Ranjini.  – New software engineer? On Ranjini’s list for the New Year. Reanalysis data policy to be looked at. 

9.	ESMValTool presentations on website   - licencing for use?  - Ranjini. Pick up at next meeting. 


10.	 AOB  - Tammy to tag updates in the tutorial when I get the release details  from Klaus. Tammy to do doodle poll for meeting in January. 
