ESMValTool UET 18/09/2023 Meeting Notes 


1)	Updates to ESMValTool tutorial made at the workshop.  Any further ‘nice to have’ features? such as an episode about downloading data from ESGF, how change the configuration files, also an episode on the jupyter note book,
Possible ESA funding available that may be able to help with this (as per Alistair’s email). 
2)	Upcoming Events? Any feedback from events? 
Emma Hogan’s talk went well, other civil service agencies are interested in ESMValTool. The talk has been recorded and can be made available. 

Birgit -  Attending the WCRP in Rwanda and will present a poster. 
        The model bench marking task team may also use ESMValTool.  There will be a CMIPO town hall where intro cards on ESMValTool will be presented. These will be on the CMIP webpage. 
Will also be providing an ESMVaTool demo. After the conference there will be an ESMValTool workshop, this is planning to include 15 people from the WCRP conference and 15 people from Rwanda. 

The ESMValTool movie has been completed.  This will be a 2 minute short film on ESMValTool and contain the same information as the CMIP ‘cards’. It has been paid for by CMIP and is professionally made. 

Emma Hogan has an ESMValTool demo that can be embedded in a webpage – could add this to the ESMValTool website. 
 
3)	Open Github questions  - how is this going , any volunteers for sept/ oct ?
    Emma Hogan for October
4)	Feedback on draft esmvaltool survey – all looks good – Birgit to look. 
5)	Video – how is this going?  - Birgit – sorted! See notes above. 
6)	Website – Workshop updates   - Ranjini and Remi , technical issues?  
   Remi has left, he will be missed!  Interviews for some new research SE in progress, hopefully there will be some new recruits soon.  December/ January. 
   The tutorial observation episode is in progress. 
7)	Obs data management. Workshop feedback   - Ranjini and Remi. 

In progress. There is a github observations group which is Birgit, V, Axel , Ranjini. 

Asking data providers to move tier 3 data to tier 2.  Some backward compatibility with recipes issues for this. 
8)	UET to make a rota for managing the community meeting? 
Paul Griffin  has taken over for the next year. Still needs some support with proceeding?  Ranjini may have covered this. 

9)	Presentations and licencing.   – Ranjini  -on going for next meeting. 
10)	Is a website link to github needed? Move presentations and tutorials from community readme to website · Issue #21 · ESMValGroup/ESMValTool-website ·
    GitHub Was this the link discussed? Was a link to the upcoming presentations and events also added / to be added? 
11)	AOB
    
Birgit – Lee de Mora attending Toulouse meeting on Ocean reanalysis data. 

Emma Hogan  The Carpentries Workbench - – something to consider? 

Doodle poll for November – action Tammy. 

