# User Engagement Meeting - April 4<sup>th</sup> 2023

## List of Attendees : 
@remi-kazeroni, @ehogan, @hb326, @SarahAlidoost, @rswamina, @breisolino, @LisaBock

## Agenda

Agenda

1.	Release (Lisa, Sarah, Rémi)

2.	Upcoming events: 
    1.	Splinter meeting at EGU (Lisa)
    2.	Tutorial for NCEO community (4th May) (Ranjini)
        help needed with updating tutorial (basic topics)
    3.	Tutorial at Workshop in Sweden (26th-30th June)    
    4.	RSE Conference 2023 in Swansea (4th-8th September)
    5.	Open tutorials? (all)

3.	Answering questions on GitHub Discussions: Feedback from the Cross Team Meeting (Ranjini)

4.	Survey to the user base (Sarah) 

5.	Short video and general presentation about ESMValTool: Status? (Birgit)

6.	Website (Lisa)

7.	Discussion on Obs data management (Ranjini)

8.	Formal tutorial release schedule tied to ESMValTool release (Ranjini)

9.	Open issues:
    1.	Adding guidelines to deliver different kinds of tutorials 
    2.	Adding episode about model simulation monitoring to the tutorial
    3.	Outdated issues

10.	New UET Lead (Lisa)

11.	AOB



## Minutes and Action Items

1. Release: Well done, Rémi! 
   We advertised the release on the website, by email to the ESMValTool mailing list, on GitHub discussions and on Twitter

   **AI:** **Sarah** will check tutorial and list required updates and possible additions. First comments are: example 
           recipe for python needs updates regarding specification of ancillary variables, adding an episode about downloading data from ESGF.
   
   **AI:** Assigning 1-2 persons to advertise and check required updates of the tutorial regarding the next release

2. Upcoming events:
   1. Splinter meeting at EGU on Wednesday, April 26<sup>th</sup>, 10:45-12:30 CEST
      
      **AI:** **Lisa** will add post to website
      
   2. Tutorial for NCEO community (May 4<sup>th</sup>): It's a basic tutorial, Ranjini needs help with updating tutorial during the week 
      April 17<sup>th</sup>-21<sup>th</sup>
      
   3. Tutorial during ESMValTool workshop in Sweden (26th-30th June): mainly for Sweden community, planned for Monday, needs probably no
      support from the UET, otherwise Klaus will get in contact

   4.	RSE Conference 2023 in Swansea (4th-8th September): Emma is thinking about participating, the tutorial is tailored to scientist, but 
      she could introduce the ESMValTool as open source software, FAIR software, ...  

   5.	Birgit will present a poster on the WCRP open science conference in Kigali, hopefully get in contact with the African community

3. We should nominate one person from the UET who is in charge to check even once a week open questions on the GitHub discussions page.
   You should tag other persons, who are best to answer the question. We will test this for some weeks if it is doable for the UET.
   
   **AI:** **Ranjini** is responsible in April to check open questions 

4.	Survey: There are now several comments and Sarah will address them. We could then test the survey with a subset of people (Core teams 
    or a small group of one project)
    
    **AI:** Define target group and choose survey tool

5.	Birgit contacted Alistair about the video, and he will check if we could get support of the MetOffice media team

6. Website: The new website is online. Everyone should be able to add a PR. But only a small group should be allowed to merge PRs (for now: Ranjini,
   Emma, Sarah, Birgit, Remi, Lisa and Axel). Updating the website is needed.
   
   **AI:** **Lisa** will adjust with Axel permissions
   
   **AI:** **DLR** will check needed updates of the website
   
   **AI:** **Sarah** will check technical issues (e.g. README, licence, ...)
   
7. Ranjini reminded us on the discussion about the obs data management. All are requested to contribute.
 
   **AI:** **Ranjini and Remi** will put comments together for next workshop

8. For now there isn't a new UET lead.

   **AI:** **Lisa** will write an email to the whole UET.
