**ESMValTool UET meeting agenda and meeting notes 07/02/2024**

1.	ESMValTool Tutorial – any updates? 

- Basic tutorial  - Ranjini to update to 2.10.  The list is an issue (309) in progress. No changes since June. 
-  Student updating cmorization episode – @Lisa.
  
2. EU proposal for funding training in Africa. Any updates on this?
   
Submitted bid   - @Birgit supporting infrastructure  - extending  European infrastructure for Africa. 
- Diagnostic for biases over Africa to be added. 
- Facilitating the use of   Cordex Africa data. One African climate model, esmvaltool for the model development.  
-  New processor that will do bias correction added, for hydrological models, regional studies. 
-  Making sure that the community in Africa can work as developers. Money for the tutorials.  Will have to see how the bid progresses.
  
3. Upcoming Events or recent events: 
-  ESMValTool Workshop – anything for the agenda? Deadline to add start of April. 
- Romain CMIP7 hackathon with ESMValTool in Australia in mid-March.
  
3 day hackathon – 60 participates. Preparing for the CMIP7 submission. ILUM – land model? 
Used prepared tutorial videos  - curated recipes for the ACCESS model output. Organised into coupled and general diagnostics.  

Some feedback: 
-	API for use in jupyter notebooks, easier that recipe format for people.  People like the flexibility of a notebook environment. 
-	Cmorizing data a challenge. Crashes if the metadata is wrong in a model. Can be a barrier to scientist using the tool. 
-	Ocean use barriers – have their own tools that they use , less interest in comparing with CMIP6. They use x-array more than iris. Have an afternoon session for an ocean diagnostic at the workshop.
-	How difficult will it be to work with the ocean grid?  - Added to the workshop discussions
  
Hackathon at ER Birgit – ICON for machine learning  - using esmvatool recipe to evaluate. Wrapper written for filling out/ writing a recipe.  
List of Hackthons can be recorded. 

4. Open github questions - volunteers for April/ May?  
No volunteers this month – do we want to continue to do this?

5. Website updates / issues. New recruits started?
   
6. Observation data management. feedback from the github group - @Birgit, V, Axel, @Ranjini. – New software engineer? Reanalysis data policy to be looked at @Ranjini. 
Some difficulties around keeping data updated and available across platforms e.g., Levante and JASMIN.  
Emma H- could use a cylc workflow for each site to manage their own obs pool? Something to talk about at the workshop, added to the discussion.

7. ESMValTool presentations on website - licencing for use? – Ranjini – cc license, or just a note? TBD.  Keep on agenda for next meeting.
    @Tammy – I have followed up with Ranjini to ask if this is something we still want to add.
   
8. AOB
   
 New UET lead needed for this year. 
 
 @Tammy to update the workshop discussion with what has been discussed. I have added this to the discussion section:
https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/141

@Birgit – Fan wanted to write a testimonial on the page. We don’t currently have any reviews.  Potential website developments?  Could put something in the discussions to start with. 
@Birgit -  Links to you tube videos? 
@Roman has a training video of ESMValTool workflow.  Happy to share? 
@Emma Hogan RSE Con. In September  - call for submissions open. 
 
