ESMValTool UET Meeting Agenda 07/02/2024

1.	ESMValTool Tutorial – any updates need/ or recently carried out (Tammy to flag from new release? Noted some changes to user config, Ranjini may also have a list to add?), any features we would like to develop. 

- Basic tutorial  - Ranjini to update to 2.10.  The list is an issue (309) in progress. No changes since June.
   
2. EU proposal for funding training in Africa. Any updates on this?
  
 - Birgit: Bid in progress, several people from esmvaltool involved. Submission 12th March. 
 - Ranjini, cohort of software engineers from Africa to be trained.
   
3. Upcoming Events or recent events – Ocean workshop at Drakkar on 31st January– Tammy and Emma supporting
- Feedback from Drakkar regarding interest in tools to cmorize NEMO data.
  
- iris developers have developed a tool to use x-array in iris, this is often used by ‘ocean’ users. 
- Birgit - EGU – submitted a session. Splinter meeting granted – also available for African partners. Friday session 10:45 – 12:30. Birgit to add Ranjini and Romain.
  
 - Romain CMIP7 hackathon with ESMValTool in Australia in mid-March.
   
- Ranjini – In April new project (A14PEX, 4 years), ‘machine learning to improve model processes’. This will use ESMValTool and NEMO.
  
4. Open github questions - volunteers for Feb/ March? Tammy to do.
  
5. Website updates / issues . New recruits started? 
- Have one new software engineer. Taking a bit of time to get up to speed (approx. 1 year). Looking for a 2nd RSE. 
- Romain also has new software engineers.
  
6. Observation data management. feedback from the github group - @Birgit, V, Axel , @Ranjini. – New software engineer? On Ranjini’s list for the New Year. Reanalysis data policy to be looked at.
   
- Some difficulties around keeping data updated and available across platforms e.g., Levante and JASMIN.  Levante sync with JASMIN has not been updated since Remi left.
-  Tier 3 data is not readily readable by ESMValTool. If possible, we want to keep obs data available for users. We are not data providers but cmorized obs data is important for ESMValtool.

- Emma H – one option might be to have a cylc workflow that automatically cmorizes and syncs obs data. 

8. ESMValTool presentations on website - licencing for use? – Ranjini – cc license, or just a note? TBD. 
9. AOB? Next meeting end of March.  – Tammy to send doodle pool. 
