# UET Meeting 4th April 2025

## Participants
- Attendees: @rswamina, @hb326, @ehogan, @rbeucher, @LisaBock
- Absentees:
- Chair: @rswamina
- Minutes taker: @rswamina

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
| 2025-02-21 | @rswamina | Create issues for tutorial updates | Not done |
| 2025-02-21 | @hb326 | Get more info for tutorial in Sweden | |
| 2025-02-21 | @hb326 | Determine whether remote attendance is possible for the EGU splinter meeting | Tina mentioned at the March community meeting that she already checked this and remote attendance is not possible. |
| 2025-02-21 | @ehogan | Ask TLT about splitting the tutorial repository | Bouwe said this has always been the aim; no concerns from the TLT |
| 2025-02-21 | @ehogan | Ask TLT about moving away from using the new Software carpentry template | The TLT do not have time to work on this, so if someone is willing to do the work then they have no concerns. They suggested looking at more modern alternatives to Sphinx (e.g. [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/)). Issue opened: [#345](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool_Tutorial/issues/345). |
| 2025-02-21 | @everyone | Update the agenda for the next meeting | |
| 2025-02-21 | @everyone | Participate in the Github issues created for Tutorial updates | |
| 2025-02-21 | @everyone | [Join Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/esmvaltoolworkspace/shared_invite/zt-3091u9d0m-YwHf4uAfxlRT~jXSQ~VeFg) | |

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)

## Agenda
- Review of Pending Action Items
- @ehogan: Should the UET restart triaging new issues and discussions?
- @ehogan: Would it be worth creating a form / a "Tutorial" category in [GitHub: Community: Discussions](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions) for people to request / express interest in attending tutorials?
- Tutorial updates
- Planned training events

### Minutes
1. GItHUb issues to be created to plan tutorial updates for the May workshop - Action item from last meeting for @rswamina.
1. Decision made to not go hybrid at EGU splinter meeting as it is mostly targeted at EGU attendees wanting to know more about ESMValTool.
2. Tutorial in Sweden tentatively planned between 10th - 13th June. @hb326 and @jlenh will lead. Will need guest accounts on Levante and updated basic tutorial lessons.
3. Decision to go ahead with ESMvalTool surgeries as planned in Jan UET meeting. We will start in the Fall.
4. Emma to resend Slack invite for communication on Tutorial dev after GitHub issues for training episodes are created.
5. Update on tutorials for Eso4Clima project - we will likley have 1 basic tutorial in Fall 2025 and 1 basic and advanced tutorial in Spring 2026.
6. Picking up unanswered queries on Discussions - Lisa and Emma after that in May.

### Action items (from this meeting)
1. @rswamina - Create issues for tutorial updates
2. @ehogan - To create sample tutorial page with .rst file format, so we can see if all the features of Software carpentry can still be used for lessons.
3. @LisaBock - to check Discussions on GitHub and direct  any unanswered questions to appropriate community teams. 
