# 20 October 2025

## Participants
- Attendees: @rswamina, @LisaBock, @hb326, @bettina-gier, @lukruh   
- Absentees: @ehogan (on leave), @rbeucher
- Chair: @rswamina
- Minutes taker: @rswamina

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2025-04-04| @rswamina|Create GitHub issues for tutorial additions|Done but need to revisit for latest release.|    
| 2025-04-04 | @hb326 | June tutorial updates | |
| 2025-02-04 | @ehogan | Updates about splitting tutorial | [Proposed a presentation for the upcoming workshop](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/248#discussioncomment-14707965) |
| 2025-02-04 | @ehogan | Moving tutorial from software carpentry - updates? | [Proposed a presentation for the upcoming workshop](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/248#discussioncomment-14707965) |
| 2025-02-21 | @everyone | [Join Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/esmvaltoolworkspace/shared_invite/zt-3091u9d0m-YwHf4uAfxlRT~jXSQ~VeFg) |Pending |
|2025-05-13 | @everyone | Participating in EU proposals | |

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)
- Review of Pending Action Items
- @ehogan: I have [proposed a presentation about Diátaxis and documentation responsibilities for the upcoming workshop](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/248#discussioncomment-14707994). I will aim to share both presentations with the UET by the end of Wed, Nov 5 (I currently only work on ESMValTool one day a week and Wed, Nov 5 is my ESMValTool day this week), and request feedback by Tue, Nov 11 so I can make any corrections on Wed, Nov 12 (my ESMValTool day the week before the workshop). I hope that's ok? :blush: 

## Agenda
- Plans for November workshop - UET has been asked to come up with a plan for the following:
    - Documentation
        -  Felicity’s PR needs merging - Maybe move last issues so @ehogan can withdraw her change requests, merge PR and then start new issue with @ehogan's requests.
        -  @lukruh and @bettina-gier noticed some out of date stuff  (to be done after the separation in documentation between ESMValCore and ESMValTool). Here is a list:
        https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/4074
        
    -  Tutorial
        -  @ehogan - to present on migrating from software carpentry to rst
        -  Clean up tutorial webpage.
        - Setting up the environment for tutorial - please check and example : https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool_Tutorial/pull/332/files

-  Planning tutorials:
    - ESO4Clima: Constraints (preferred a.m, not Nov 4th, preferance for Nov 10th week if possible).
    - Other tutorials?
    
- AOB
## Discussion and Action Items
    
1. @lukruh - Documentation - build locally so website bot doesn't have to run multiple times, distinguish between Tutorial, website and documentation. 
2. Perhaps have registration so we know how many new users are there to see if an introduction would be needed.
3. @bettina-gier -  Tackle small things and have discussion on Emma's major changes proposed.
4. @ehogan has taken back changes suggested in Felicity's PR so merge can go through. The ESMValCore PR hasn't been reviewed but @lukruh can look and @bettina-gier can merge after that.
5. Priority (project board - add to this): https://github.com/orgs/ESMValGroup/projects/34/views/1
    - to fix broken links on website and documentation.
    - Update core team and consortium details on website
    - Tag technical team to update Contributing to Tutorial section and keep Tutorial GitHub on for this.- @rswamina
    - UET to identify new user issues and add to Project board.
    - Add subissues to Tutorial issues.
6. Tutorials planned:
    - U.Cologne masterclass - @bettina-gier and @hb326.
    - Training school in Senegal (online) - @hb326 and @bettina-gier.
    - ESO4clima basic topics tutorial - set date and registration and organize guest accounts - tentative Dec 3rd.
    
    ## Action Items
    
    1. Merge PR separating ESMValCore and ESMValTool documentation - @chun_felicity.
    2. Sort out registration for tutorial on Dec 3rd - @rswamina
    3. Organize guest accounts for tutorial - @hb326 and  @LisaBock
    4. Request help from technical team for Tutorial contributions - @rswamina.
    5. All - add what could be considered new user issues - that is what new users can work on to the Project board. Please see notes above for some topics to add.
    6. All - Add subissues to Tutorial issues and add to Project board.
    7. Set up workshop registration to identify new users - @bettina-gier.
    8. Review and merge ESMValCore documentation after the split - @bettina-gier and @lukruh.
---
