# 30 Jan 2026

## Participants
- Attendees: @rswamina, @LisaBock, @hb326, @ehogan, @rbeucher
- Absentees: 
- Chair: @rswamina
- Minutes taker: @rswamina

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2025-05-13 | @everyone | Participating in EU proposals | Ongoing|

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)
- Review of Pending Action Items.
- Planning for various proposed tutorials - lead and tech support.
- UET lead change.
- Tutorial updates - as needed.
- Taking a decision on recipients of UET emails.

## Agenda
- UET lead change - @LisaBock will be lead for the next year.
- Regarding email recipients on the UET mailing list - @LisaBock will contact them and see if they still want to be on the list, otherwise we can remove those who are not active and do not want to remain on these groups.
- We need to deliver an advanced tutorial for the Dec 3rd cohort as otherwise we will lose momentum with that group. 
- Tentative advanced tutorial for this group will be April 21st/22nd - @rswamina will check with AIVAL and ESO4Clima participants and confirm. @rswamina will lead this and it will be online.
- Potential basic topics tutorialfor IPCC authors in Oct/Nov 2026 - will be led by ACCESS-NRI.
- If all goes well, the LST-CCI and IPCC groups can have a combined advanced tutorial.
- @rswamina to ask Tech lead team for availability for April, May tutorials and ask @bouwe for availability for 2027 tutorial on CMOR-ization with ESO4clima.
- Statistics on traffic on website and documentation - five attendees from today to be added to that if possible. @hb326 will check with @bouwe to see if this is possible
- Migrating documentation to Diataxis and Sphinx - to be kept in mind and acted upon with potential funding.
