# 2nd cross team meeting, 25 November 2021, 12pm-1pm CET

## Action log

|ID	|Owner	|Action	|Status   |
|---|---|---|---|
|1.1	|Ranjini	|Check whether the user team are happy to share notes publicly	|Done |
|1.2	|Ranjini	|Ask NLeSC about good formats for this kind of discussion	|Done |
|1.3	|Alistair	|Agree framing of discussion and take it to the community for input	|To be done considering the discussion of this meeting |
|1.4	|Alistair	|Schedule a meeting in mid-December	|To be done |


## Agenda (written by Alistair)
1.	Actions from last meeting (I will try and get my notes from the last meeting circulated ASAP)
2.	Next steps for backward compatibility (not the details but the practicalities of how to continue the discussion online)
3.	Decide whether we have capacity yet to start an organized discussion on another issue (I suspect not)
4.	Gather some views on the desirability (or not) of having an interim steering group. We heard two supporting voices yesterday, but it would be good hear from you whether you foresee any concerns & discuss practicalities.

## Actions from last meeting
* Were checked. 1.1 and 1.2 were done, 1.3 and 1.4 are still outstanding, but are planned to be done soon after this meeting with input from the discussions of this meeting
* All agreed to try to find a date in January rather than December for the next cross-team meeting

## Next steps for backward compatibility
* It was suggested that we create a document that is distributed within the community to get the discussion going that has been started this morning at the ESMValTool Workshop session
* All five agreed to start the document with a statement of our understanding of backward compatibility. This statement will be iterated between the five attendees until agreement is reached. This statement can be adjusted based on the suggestions of the community. 
* All five decided that the document should have three sections:
  1. Things that are related to the stated definition of backward compatibility (version stability, reproducibility, maintenance)
  2. Solutions to the problem of backward compatibility
  3. Things that are connected to the discussion of backward compatibility, but do not fall into the first two categories (e.g. communication channels, testing)
* We agreed to reboot the discussion about backward compatibility from time to time, and point the community again to the document. All agreed that this would be good.
* Important link to testing strategy; possible proposal: work on automatic testing could become a priority
* The document will then be circulated within the community via Mailing lists, Issues & Discussions on GitHub

## Decide whether we have capacity yet to start an organized discussion on another issue
* All five agreed that it would be too much start an organized discussion on a totally new topic, however, it might be good to start a discussion on a topic that is added to the document with the backward compatibility discussion to the third section.

## Gather some views on the desirability (or not) of having an interim steering group
* There is a view that we are missing a team/group that gets things moving and keeps things moving; that is why he suggested an “interim” steering committee
* All five agreed that the cross-team team could fill the gap and get/keep things moving; however, the team would not get the name “interim steering committee” but keep the name “cross-team team” and it would be make clear to the community that this team is coordinating efforts and ideas that originate from the community and the three teams.
