# 1nd cross team meeting, 22 October 2021

## Action log

|ID	|Owner	|Action	|
|---|---|---|
|1.1	|Ranjini	|Check whether the user team are happy to share notes publicly	|
|1.2	|Ranjini	|Ask NLeSC about good formats for this kind of discussion	|
|1.3	|Alistair	|Agree framing of discussion and take it to the community for input	|
|1.4	|Alistair	|Schedule a meeting in mid-December	|


## Agenda 
1. Consistency of team record keeping & and openness of the meetings
2. Cross-team issues
3. Backward incompatibility
4. Next meeting(s)

## Consistency of team record keeping & and openness of the meetings
We decided that this group should meet regularly. We did not decide a fixed frequency yet, and for now will instead choose a future meeting date each time we meet.

We decided that minutes (= decisions and actions, not a record of individual views expressed) for meetings of this group be shared with the individual teams. We would like to go further and make
the minutes public so long as this is consistent with the approach of the 3 ESMValTool teams. The Tech & Science Lead Dev teams have agreed already to their minutes / notes being public.

ACTION: Ranjini to check whether the user team are happy to share notes publicly.

## Cross-team issues
We identified the following issues as topics that require cross-team coordination, and therefore that this group should seek to address:
1. General strategy on backwards compatibility
2. Tolerance of metadata inconsistencies - and more generally fussiness. Error leniency of ESMValTool.
3. Communications about changes in infrastructure
4. Minimal effort strategy to keep the tutorial in sync with the latest release/available and tested recipes. And keep it updating wrt to recipes that are maintained. (These will helped by 1 & 2)
5. How to find enough reviewers (science and technical?) and maintainers.

These are in rough priority order, though we only prioritised the first 2 or 3.

## Backward incompatibility
We discussed some of the issues and concerns around backward compatibility. The following is only a subset of the aspects covered.
* There is some recollection of a previous agreement that backward incompatible changes should only happen at major releases.
* We do not have an agreed definition of what constitutes a backward incompatible change. Is this a grey area? Can we define this objectively by a set of tests (if any of these break the change is not backward compatible). Do we need a process / panel to decide this on a case-bycase basis.
* Communications: how to make user affected users are aware. We don't necessarily have a comms route to all users. Can we develop one? (E.g. a registered list of all users.)
* Need to consider the impact on the tutorial of breaking changes (see issue 3 above).

We decided that this was a discussion that should be taken to the wider community. Proposed process:
* Open discussion via meetings and online, thenâ€¦
* A group of people develop a proposal that takes account of the views raised in the discussion.
* The proposal is put to the community for debate and improvement.

Alistair agreed to "own" the discussion: i.e. decide when it has run far enough and lead a group to make a proposal.

ACTION: Ranjini to ask NLeSC about good formats for this kind of discussion. A GitHub issue is not great, because it is linear.

## Next meeting(s)
Our next meeting will be during the workshop. A further meeting in the weeks after the workshop will probably be needed.

ACTION: Alistair to schedule a meeting in early-mid December
