# 3nd cross team meeting, 24 January 2021, 11am-12pm CET

## Action log

|ID	|Owner	|Action	|Status   |
|---|---|---|---|
|1.1	|Ranjini	|Check whether the user team are happy to share notes publicly	|Done |
|1.2	|Ranjini	|Ask NLeSC about good formats for this kind of discussion	|Done |
|1.3	|Alistair	|Agree framing of discussion and take it to the community for input	|Done |
|1.4	|Alistair	|Schedule a meeting in mid-December	|Done |
|1.5	|Alistair	|Taking the CLA decision back to UK Met Office and to be in touch with partner legal teams	|To be done |
|1.6	|Alistair	|Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility as described below |To be done |
|1.7	|Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini	|Being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities	|To be done |

## Agenda (distributed by Alistair)
1.  Next steps for backward compatibility discussion
2.  Resolving the CLA issue so that we can move forward on governance
3.  Establishing some horizon scanning activities, particularly with regard to funding opportunities
4.  Future activity for this cross-team group

## Actions from last meeting
* Were checked. 1.3 and 1.4 were done

## Next steps for backward compatibility
* With the Christmas break and the new release in February, we want to give people more time to participate so we will give the community more time (raise this issue in the Feb meeting with a deadline for mid-Feb) before we wrap this up by March.
* The fact that Numpy drops support for Python versions 3.7 and earlier highlights the issue of new dependencies and should open up the conversation for ESMValTool as well.
* An outcome from this discussion will be useful for the June release.
* A small group of people (Alistair + reps from the 3 teams)  to put forth final proposal based on community discussion.

## CLA issue
* The U.K Met Office would like us to have a CLA for code contributions to ESMValTool. This has been conveyed to the technical team which raised the question of perhaps getting input from the Science Team as well. 
* The need for this is for contributors to accept that the code they submit is their own and can be shared per ESMValTool copyrights.
* We decided this was needed and that the best form it could take is - every contributor signs a CLA form and confirms agreement by checking a box with every PR.
* This will not be applied retrospectively.
* A.S will take this draft back to be included in the draft consortium agreement. He will figure out the point of contact for this across partner legal teams.

## Future funding
* There will be no IS-ENES4 so we will have to look at funding opportunities as part of programs such as HORIZON EUROPE.
* It would be good to have funds to support user engagment activities so perhaps we should look for opportunities. R.S could present a summary of user engagement activities as needed for such funding.
* Funding for dedicated developers for projects: The reason this point was raised was because we sometimes lose users/contributions because users are not comfortable with GitHub so if we could have a team for large projects (e.g. all the science produced in the UK Met Office) to push diagnostics developed into the repo it might help. This led to a discussion on how much support we should provide for software from Python to Github. This discussion will be picked up later because it is not resolved.

