# 5th cross team meeting, 20 June 2022, 11am-12pm CET

## Action log

| ID | Owner | Action | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1.6 | Alistair | Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility as described below | To be done |
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities | To be done |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant | To be done |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Keep progressing discussions with partners on CA | To be done |
| 5.3 | Birgit | Create first draft of work plan using workshop notes (GitHub discussions) | To be done |
|-|-|-|-|

## Agenda
1. Action items from last meeting
2. Status of consortium agreement (CA)
3. Start capturing long-term strategy / wishlist / roadmap (in a document or elsewhere?)
4. Projects funding ESMValTool work

## Actions from last meeting
* 1.5 Taking the CLA decision back to UK Met Office and to be in touch with partner legal teams (Alistair): done
  (CLA will be part of CA)
* 1.6 Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility (Alistair): ongoing, follow-up meeting will be scheduled soon
* 1.7 Being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities: on-going; specific and targeted work needs to be proposed for small
  funding opportunities (e.g. student helper); list of such activities is considered helpful
* 4.1 Take CLA issue to tech lead team (Klaus): done, Met Office will take care of maintainance (CLA assistant)

## Update on consortium agreement (CA)
* Draft CA has been sent to contact point from each prospective partner
* e-Science Center are not sure whether they can make a 1 year FTE committment given current funding situation
* DLR in contact with legal team; Birgit will follow-up
* SMHI determining responsible contact point for feedback on CA
* NCO, ongoing, Ranjini monitors progress
* Time line: Alistair asks partners for progress every few weeks

## Long-term strategy / wishlist / roadmap
* Two components: 1-year planning document (work plan) with a longer term vision (proposed by steering group, reviewed annually)
* Example to look at could be taken from NEMO (how to capture ideas)
* Draft needed before signing CA
* Defining future aim / focus of the tool (e.g. regional models, CMIP7, etc.)
* Use notes from ESMValTool workshop as starting point to create working document (GitHub discussions)
