# 6th cross-team meeting, 4 October 2022, 3-4pm CEST

## Action log
| ID | Owner | Action |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1.6 | Alistair | Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility |
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant | 
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA | 
| 5.3 | Birgit | Create first draft of work plan using workshop notes (GitHub discussions) |


## Agenda
1. Action items from last meeting
2. Workshop programme & preparations
3. Next steps for backward compatibility strategy
4. Date of next meeting


## Actions from last meeting
| ID | Owner | Action | Report & new status |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1.6 | Alistair | Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility as described below | See agenda item below. Keep action open until the policy is finalised. |
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities | Recurring action. No new items raised. |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant | Test implementation demonstrated by Theo Geddes at Met Office. One niggle is the difficulty of sharing ownership of the gist on which appears to be tied to an individual. Suggestion to see if gist can be owned by an organisation, though would that open personal data to too many people? Action continued. |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Keep progressing discussions with partners on CA | Recurring action. Alistair has asked partner contacts for updates and will bring a synthesis to the workshop, along with a best estimate of when it will be formalised. |
| 5.3 | Birgit | Create first draft of work plan using workshop notes (GitHub discussions) | To be done |


## Workshop programme & preparations
Draft programme is nearly ready to share. Alistair had some final questions on who could lead a couple of sessions.


## Next steps for backward compatibility strategy
The backward compatibility policy development team (Emma Hogan, Axel Lauer, Bouwe Andela, Alistair Sellar) has been working hard over the past few months to evolve a policy proposal that takes account of the views shared in the previous two ESMValTool workshops. We now have a proposal that we would like feedback on, and have shared this with the community for online discussion and will discuss at the workshop. The team aims to meet for a writing session at the workshop following the discussion, with the goal of finalising the policy during the workshop.



## Date of next meeting

Back to the usual schedule: 28th November. 10-11am GMT, 11-12am CET.

