# 10th cross-team meeting, 5 June 2023, 10-11am BST/11am-12pm CEST

## Agenda
### Action items from last meeting

Actions from last meeting and discussion details:
| ID | Owner | Action | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant and Get a central GitHub account set up for CLA |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA |
| 7.4 | Klaus | Get in contact with EC-Earth consortium regarding new Horizon Europe calls |
| 7.5 | all | Check Horizon Europe infrastructure call document for funding opportunities |
| 8.1 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss with User Engagement Team about a formal liaison to coordinate tutorial updates with releases. |
| 8.2 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss having a rota in the User Engagement Team for tagging questions posed in the GitHUb Discussions page. |
| 8.3 | Birgit | Discuss strategy for Reanalysis data. |
| 9.1 | Axel | Chat on documentation on community ties at EGU |


#### Notes
##### 1.7
* Outreach becomes more important for EU projects
* User engagement activites for next 4 years partly covered by TerraFIRMA Project (Ranjini)
* Not many funding opportunities available at this time

#### 1.7.1
* Lisa is looking for a replacement as user engagement team lead; Tammy Palmer has volunteered; ask Lisa
to schedule user engagement team meeting (e.g. at workshop)

##### 5.1
* Shared github account needed to manage CLA; agree at workshop how to do this

##### 5.2
* Technical discussions with legal departments are ongoing

##### 7.4
* No new projects at the moment
* Horizon Europe call is open that might contain funding possibilities

##### 7.5
* Agree on which Horizon Europe call to focus on
* Possibility to get national funding for German CMIP7 activities

##### 8.1
* User engagement team agreed to have someone to direct open questions to (core) developers,
Ranjini did successful trial period in April
* User engagement team is currently lacking resources to keep tutorial updated with all new ESMValTool features
* People teaching tutorials are encouraged to contribute to updating tutorial
* Mechanism in place to flag required changes but unclear who actually implements these changes; idea: do some of the tutorial work during coding sessions at workshop
* Possibly define targets for a yearly work plan
* Basic parts of tutorial need to be updated more regularly to remain compatible with latest ESMValTool releases than advanced topics

##### 8.2
* Rota for tagging questions posed in the GitHub discussions page will be revisited at next user engagement team meeting

##### 8.3
* Birgit: had a chat with Jerry on how to keep reanalysis datasets updated
* Idea to put CMORizers into separate package; might (over)strech available resources
* Topics fits into session on observations at workshop

##### 9.1
* Axel reports from discussion of possible community ties at ESMValTool splinter meeting (EGU2023).
The following items have been mentioned: software projects (e.g. era5cli, iris), science projects,
other communities (e.g. ESGF, developing countries: CORDEX Africa), conferences (e.g. EGU, AGU, WCRP),
software installation on HPC systems + tutorials
* Reach out to possible partners before writing proposals, guidelines for HPC centers
(e.g. observations, modules)

### Workshop
* No additional cross team meeting at workshop scheduled
* Some of the tutorial work could be done during coding sessions at workshop
* Reanalysis data fits into session on observations at workshop (see also https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/70)
* Prelimiary agenda is now available at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1m6WMST6V7y8QJxFeJ9q4D63jf0lcrr5pvNL02dvMnrQ/edit#heading=h.9wvziunzed43
* Keep discussion on funding on agenda. Possibly provide text templates for proposals ("How to make
applying for funding easier").

### Date of next meeting
The next cross team meeting will be at 2023-07-17 11:00CEST.

## Action log from this meeting:

| ID | Owner | Action |
|-|-|-|
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities |
| 1.7.1 | Axel | Ask Lisa to schedule a user engagement team meeting if needed |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant and Get a central GitHub account set up for CLA |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA |
| 8.1 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss with User Engagement Team about a formal liaison to coordinate tutorial updates with releases. |
| 8.2 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss having a rota in the User Engagement Team for tagging questions posed in the GitHUb Discussions page. |
| 8.3 | Birgit | Discuss strategy for Reanalysis data. |
| 9.1 | Birgit | Start a document/example text for different funding calls to be discussed at the workshop in Sweden in June 2023 |
