# 9th cross-team meeting, 28 March 2023, 10-11am BST/11am-12pm CEST

## Agenda
### Action items from last meeting

Actions from last meeting and discussion details:
| ID | Owner | Action | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
| 1.6 | Alistair | Wrapping up the discussion on backward compatibility | Done (Merged in 2.8.0) |
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities | Ongoing effort |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant and Get a central GitHub account set up for CLA | Outstanding |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA | Ongoing |
| 5.3 | Birgit | Create first draft of work plan using workshop notes. Birgit has now started the [discussion] (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3035) on Github | Done |
| 7.4 | Klaus | Get in contact with EC-Earth consortium regarding new Horizon Europe calls | Ongoing |
| 7.5 | all | Check Horizon Europe infrastructure call document for funding opportunities | Ongoing |
| 8.1 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss with User Engagement Team about a formal liaison to coordinate tutorial updates with releases. | Some progress, Ongoing |
| 8.2 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss having a rota in the User Engagement Team for tagging questions posed in the GitHUb Discussions page. | Ongoing |
| 8.3 | Birgit | Discuss strategy for Reanalysis data. | Ongoing |

#### Notes
##### 1.6
Big thanks to everyone who contributed ideas and feedback!

##### 5.3
A first workplan is now published at https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3035.
To achieve full co-ownership in the consortium, the way forward should still be discussed.
Ranjini would like a way forward that allows for individual contributions but also improves the ecosystem as a whole.
Funding opportunities might improve by framing improvements more generally.
Alistair brings up the fact that our own roadmap can interact with the plans of the wider community.
Klaus mentioned some points of engagement, such as via Iris, Dask, Conda-forge.
Ranjini highlights the need to make contributions to the wider community more visible,
as well as the strong community aspect of ESMValTool with its very open development model.

Axel mentions the technical nature of the parts brought up so far.
Mentioning technical connections is important, but tracking scientific development also in other tools is important too.

Another point of interaction is the handling of observational data.
ESMValTools obs cmorization capabilities can be useful beyond the tool and may provide further links.
This may be in the context of an HPC network for ESMValTool or integration into upstream infrastructure such as ESGF.

Concrete steps forward envisioned are a sub-page on community ties, or a more dynamic log of note-worthy events in the wider community.
See also action 9.1.

### Consortium Agreement
Birgit and Alistair report on bi-lateral interaction between DLR and MetOffice.
There is hope for some progress on the outstanding issues in the next few weeks after a recent holiday period.

### Workshop
The date will be June 27-June 29.
Registration will be open asap.
Program committee will be assembled asap.
Program draft in one week.
Final program pre EGU.
Monday 26. June will have a tutorial, primarily for the Swedish community, but open for workshop participants.

### Observation Data Management Working Group (Remi/Ranjini)
There is a draft in https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/70 . Further discussion will be held at the workshop.

### AOB
Birgit submitted an ESMValTool abstract to the WCRP meeting in Kigali.

### Date of next meeting
The next cross team meeting will be at 2023-06-05T11:00CEST.

## Action log from this meeting:

| ID | Owner | Action |
|-|-|-|
| 1.7 | Alistair, Birgit, Ranjini, Lisa | Recurring action: being on the lookout for user engagement funding opportunities |
| 5.1 | Alistair | Progress preparation for implementation of CLA assistant and Get a central GitHub account set up for CLA |
| 5.2 | Alistair | Recurring action until CA is signed: keep progressing discussions with partners on CA |
| 7.4 | Klaus | Get in contact with EC-Earth consortium regarding new Horizon Europe calls |
| 7.5 | all | Check Horizon Europe infrastructure call document for funding opportunities |
| 8.1 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss with User Engagement Team about a formal liaison to coordinate tutorial updates with releases. |
| 8.2 | Birgit and Ranjini | Discuss having a rota in the User Engagement Team for tagging questions posed in the GitHUb Discussions page. |
| 8.3 | Birgit | Discuss strategy for Reanalysis data. |
| 9.1 | Axel | Chat on documentation on community ties at EGU |
