# 2025-09-30 Steering Group Meeting

Present:
- Alistair Sellar (chair)
- Axel Lauer
- Bouwe Andela
- Julien Lenhardt
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Saskia Loosveldt
- Naomi Parsons (minutes)

Apologies:
- Birgit Hassler
- Romain Beucher

## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    - a) Actions from previous meetings (see below)
    - b) Update on funding proposals
    - c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    - d) Next workshop
2. **ACCESS-NRI's application to join the ESMValTool consortium (vote)**
3. **ESMValTool release schedule**
4. **AOB**



## Meeting notes

### 1) Standing items

- #### a) Actions from previous meetings

    **Axel and Birgit to notify the relevant channels regarding Julia retirement.**
This has been completed using a GitHub discussion. In future, the tutorial and website will need updating, and the mailing list can be notified.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Ranjini to open a GitHub issue to update any references to Julia in the tutorial.

    **Everyone to vote on ACCESS-NRI's application to join the consortium.**
_See below._


- #### b) Update on funding proposals
  - A proposal has been submitted by the ENES-RI consortium to an EU HorizonEurope services call, containing an evaluation work package.
  - The Netherlands eScience Centre have an open call for proposals. Please advertise this to any collaborators in the Netherlands: https://www.esciencecenter.nl/calls-for-proposals/open-escience-call-oec-2025/


- #### c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    The CMIP Model Benchmarking Task Team have noted, especially while overseeing work for the REF, that observational uncertainty is currently not well represented in ESMValTool diagnostics. This is likely to require work to address over the coming years.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Ranjini to share a summary of future related conversations held by the model benchmarking task team with the steering group.
    
- #### d) Next workshop
    The next ESMValTool workshop will be help virtually on 18th - 20th November 2025, and the following workshop will be hybrid and held on 11th - 13th May 2026. There was discussion about the documentation focus of the upcoming November workshop, including the role of the User Engagement Team.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Ranjini to discuss proposed documentation changes with the User Engagement Team and Tina, with a goal of recommending priority developments that could be tackled at the workshop.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Axel to check in with Tina about plans for advertising the November workshop, and gathering input on agenda items.


### 2) ACCESS-NRI's application to join the ESMValTool consortium (vote)

ACCESS-NRI have submitted a formal application to join the ESMValTool Consortium, accepting that this is a commitment of providing resource of at least 1 FTE and a seat on the Steering Group.  

<strong>At today's meeting the following members voted in favour of ACCESS-NRI joining the ESMValTool Consortium:</strong>
- Bouwe Andela (NLeSC)
- Ranjini Swaminathan (NERC)
- Saskia Loosveldt (BSC)

This is in addition to the following people, who had already voted in favour on 29th July 2025:
- Alistair Sellar (Met Office)
- Axel Lauer (DLR)
- Birgit Hassler (DLR)
- Julien Lenhardt (SMHI)

<strong>ACCESS-NRI have now obtained a unanimous vote of approval to join the consortium by all members of the Steering Group.</strong>

 - <strong>Action:</strong> Alistair to communicate the next steps in the process.

### 3) ESMValTool release schedule

The schedule of release managers has been agreed between consortium partners for the next 6 releases, to 2027. It was agreed that these should be added to the [release schedule](https://docs.esmvaltool.org/en/latest/community/release_strategy/release_strategy.html#upcoming-releases) page on _Read the Docs_ so that users have visibility of the approximate timing and lead institute of upcoming releases.

It was suggested that, in the future, context around IPCC activity could be given next to the date of each planned release.

Thanks was given to Julien for his work on the 2.13 release.

 - <strong>Action:</strong> Saskia to share details from the release date spreadsheet with the Tech Lead Team.
 - <strong>Action:</strong> Bouwe to update the _Read the Docs_ page with the planned release dates.

### 4) AOB

No further business was raised.

## Resulting actions

#### Alistair
- Communicate the next steps in the process of ACCESS-NRI becoming an oficial member of the ESMValTool Consortium.

#### Axel
- Check in with Tina about plans for advertising the November workshop, and gathering input on agenda item.
    
#### Bouwe
- Update the Read the Docs page with the planned release dates.

#### Ranjini
- Open a GitHub issue to update any references to Julia in the tutorial.
- Share a summary of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty.
- Discuss proposed documentation changes with the User Engagement Team and Tina, with a goal of recommending priority developments that could be tackled at the November 2025 workshop.

#### Saskia
- Share details from the release date spreadsheet with the Tech Lead Team.
