# 2025-03-25 Steering group meeting

Present:
* Alistair Sellar (chair ü™ë)
* Birgit Hassler 
* Axel Lauer
* Bouwe Andela
* Julien Lenhardt
* Ranjini Swaminathan
* Romain Beucher
* Saskia Loosveldt Tomas
* Chris Billows (minutes :stopwatch:)

## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    - a) Actions from previous meetings (***see below***)
    - b) Update on funding proposals
    - c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    - d) Next workshop - May 13th to 15th (hybrid with in-person at DLR in Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany)

1.  **Update: REF and the early March hackathon** - BIRGIT
1.  **Funding: The expected Horizon Europe D01 call** - RANJINI
1.	**Question: Wider global engagement in proposed EU calls** - RANJINI
    - Question for Birgit & Alistair: will any of the proposed EU calls have the scope to include some aspect of wider global engagment - Africa/S.America/Asia for community engagement targeted towards scientific development for AR7? 
1. **Continue discussion of ‚Äúapproach for planning and reporting‚Äù** - ALISTAIR
    - Picking up from discussion from Jan 28th's meeting (Meeting notes [here]( https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/Minutes/20250128.md#3---partner-planning-and-reporting-of-effort--alistair)).
    - MEETING OBJECTIVE: Agree principles on what we want to achieve through these processes / documents, before deciding solutions. 
    - Some ideas (covering both principles and potential solutions) in these slides that I introduced last time: slides [here](/files/ESMValTool_Consortium-planning_and_reporting.pdf).
    - Slide 4 has some suggestions to spark discussion.
    - Please come with your thoughts on principles. 

## Meeting notes

### 1 - Standing Items

#### a) Action items from Last Meeting

##### **Volunteer a 2.13 release manager (EVERYONE)**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** Still required. A release for the REF was agreed as desirable, but may not be possible.

##### **Reflect & gather thoughts on partner planning (Alistair's slides) for March meeting (EVERYONE)**
    
> [!NOTE]
> ‚úÖ Discusion took place in agenda item #5 (refer to below).

##### **RANJINI and ALISTAIR to liase re: materials (steering group/new structure etc.) for next UE meeting**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Ranjini** to reflect if still required and confirm if so. (link to previous mtg item [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/Minutes/20250128.md#user-engagement-team-ranjini))

##### **ALISTAIR For the workshop (May 13th-15th), book the finest facilities the Met Office has to offer**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úÖ Complete

##### **ALISTAIR Re: Tina working on ZEC. Check with Chris Jones for Python code that could help**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úÖ Chris didn't have code, but gave science advice that contributed to the review. Tina has completed and merged the ZEC diagnostic [#3897](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/3897).

##### **ALISTAIR Re: Ranjini working on global warming levels/ensemble spreads, diff CORDEX regions. Check with MO people for shape file/other assistance**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úÖ Checked with MO CORDEX experts and they didn't have any shape files (as Brigit expected).

##### **BIRGIT and ROMAIN Re: Monthly community meetings. Birgit to follow up with Romain**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Birgit** Not done yet. Will do so until the next Steering group meeting.

##### **BIRGIT and JULIEN Re: Swedish presentation/tutorial. Birgit to follow up with Julien**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Birgit** The tutorial is most likely to be held in after mid-May, but there was no feedback about a concrete timeline yet. As soon as I hear that I will be in contact with Julien.

##### **BOUWE To confirm if the ENES meeting can be moved, or if a new represenative is needed**

> [!NOTE]
> - ‚úÖ Meeting cannot be moved and a new representative needs to be found
> - Meetings are first Monday of every month (next meeting is Apri 7th).
> - ‚úÖ The steering group nominated Alistair Sellar as temporary representative
> - ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Bouwe** - to confirm Alistair's appointment with ENES group
> - ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** - invited to consider taking the role long term, contact Alistair/Birgit if interested

##### **BOUWE To confirm which ENSO diagnostics PMP will provide**

> [!NOTE]
> - ‚úÖ Confirmed here: https://github.com/orgs/Climate-REF/projects/2/views/1
> - ‚úèÔ∏è*Action:* **Bouwe** will set up a meeting with Romain, Nathan and Jiwoo to figure out who does what

##### **BOUWE To clarify the REF deadline for all recipes**

> [!NOTE]
> ‚úÖ Confirmed as April 2025

#### b) Update on funding proposals

##### ESA Climate Space Proposal (Axel)
- Axel gave latest updates

##### Netherlands E-Science Restructure

- They will not particiapte in proposals during the restructure.

#### c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions

- No updates

#### d) Next Workshop (hybrid with in-person at DLR in Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany)

- Tina has opened a GitHub issue for agenda items
- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** Please add agenda items 
- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** Please register for the workshop - especially for in-person attendance (for access to DLR site) but also for online attendance

### 2. **Update: REF and the early March hackathon** - BIRGIT

- Extremely valuable for talking, planning, deciding how to cover gaps etc.
- The REF timelines continue to be extremely tight
- Attempted to break REF for ESMValTool with hi-res data - and it didn't break!
- 1st March was the deadline for integrating all metrics
- Reminder that contributors get co-authorship credit on the REF paper
- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** Please review PRs tagged with "REF" as a priority (science & technical)*

### 3. **Funding: The expected Horizon Europe D01 call** - RANJINI
### 4. **Question: Wider global engagement in proposed EU calls** - RANJINI

- Item 3 and 4 discussed together
- QUESTION: Are there opportunities for wider global engagement, e.g. the global south?
- ANSWER: Yes, definitely
- Birgit in contact with Brian Lawrence re: tweaking the Horizon proposal
- There may be an additional work package for training which could potentially accomodate global south
- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Birgit** to discuss the training work package with Anna and report back to Steering Group*
- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** Contact Birgit if willing to assist*

### 5. **Continue discussion of ‚Äúapproach for planning and reporting‚Äù** - ALISTAIR

- Picked up from discussion from Jan 28th's meeting (Meeting notes [here]( https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/Minutes/20250128.md#3---partner-planning-and-reporting-of-effort--alistair))
- The group re-reviewed slides ([here](/files/ESMValTool_Consortium-planning_and_reporting.pdf))
- The following principles for collaboration were discussed and agreed:
    - **Trust**: a collaboration cannot work without it. 
    - **Fairness**: feelings of unfairness will erode willingness to contribute
    - **Confidence in capacity and capability**: we will have interdependencies and need to know we can rely on each other
    - **Transparency of plans and activity**: avoid duplication or gaps, and build trust and confidence
    - **Understanding**: that each partner has different priorities, and that their capacity and capabilities will vary in time
    - **Constructive challenge**: to raise concerns with each other and adjust course before trust and confidence break down

- Discussion of the principles touched upon:
    - Resources likely to be a moving target, changing over time. This is related to transparency.
    - E.g a consortimum member shared thoughts/efforts on improving their institute's ability to contribute more
    - It's ideal to have something in place to regularly check how people are feeling about the consortium, and to preempt issues before people get really angry!
    - A Steering Group culture of early challenging and an openness to being challenged was suggested
    - In person meetings mentioned as a vital part of open communication culture

- Alistair proposed the Steering Group develop three documents:
    - 1) **Long term strategy (for everybody)**
        - A quite mature draft already exists
    - 2) **Shared plan for short term work (for consortium partners)**
        - part of the transparency piece
        - detailing what we are each proposing to contribute
        - facilitate aligning goals of ESMValTool and goals of the specific projects often funding consortium members activity 
    - 3) **Retrospective report on consortium activity**
        - opportunity for transparency and to challenge early
        - what was actually done/were objectives met/what issues arose

- A key discussion point raised by Ranjini: 

> How we as representatives of consortium partner institutes were expected to "represent" our institutes and if there were some basic guidelines we all had to follow? 
>  - e.g report back after every meeting or such.
>  - We are not a big number as such but there is quite a bit of diversity in how our orgnaizations function and what career stage we are at within the organizational structure so this may be different for each of us. 
>  - So it might be good to have some structure in place as a baseline to ensure our institutes are all appropriately represented.

- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** reflect on the principles and what they might mean in practice for planning and reporting
- ‚úèÔ∏è *Action:* **Everyone** reflect specifically on the proposed three documents. Goal will be to discuss and agree which documents to create at next Steering Group meeting.

## Action Items (Consolidated from above)
 
### Everyone

- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: REF. Please review PRs tagged with "REF" as a priority (science & technical)
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Volunteer a 2.13 release manager is still required. A release for the REF was agreed as desirable, but may not be possible.
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: ENES Meeting representative. Everyone invited to consider taking the role long term, contact Alistair/Birgit if interested
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Please add agenda items for the ESMValTool workshop [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/215)
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Please register for the workshop - for in-person attendance (for access to DLR site) but also for online attendance. Link [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/218)
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: Horizon call/training work package. Contact Birgit if willing to assist
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: Approach to planning and reporting. Everyone to reflect what the agreed principles might mean in practice for planning and reporting
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: Approach to planning and reporting. Everyone also to reflect specifically on the proposed three documents. Goal will be to discuss and agree which documents to create at next Steering Group meeting.

### Ranjini

- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Ranjini to reflect if previous meeting item "liase with Alistair re: materials (steering group/new structure etc.) for next UE meeting" still required and confirm if so (link to previous mtg item [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/Minutes/20250128.md#user-engagement-team-ranjini))

### Birgit

- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: Monthly community meetings. Birgit to follow up with Romain. Not done yet. Will do so until the next Steering group meeting.
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: Swedish presentation/tutorial. The tutorial is most likely to be held in after mid-May, but there was no feedback about a concrete timeline yet. As soon as I hear that I will be in contact with Julien.
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: Horizon call/training work package & global south. Birgit to discuss the training work package with Anna and report back to Steering Group.

### Bouwe

- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: ENES Meeting. Bouwe to confirm Alistair's appointment and future attendance with the ENES group
- ‚úèÔ∏è **Action:** Re: ENSO diagnostics/PMP. Bouwe will set up a meeting with Romain, Nathan and Jiwoo to figure out who does what
