# Provisional Minutes
# 2025-11-25 Steering Group meeting

Present:
- Birgit Hassler (chair)
- Alistair Sellar
- Axel Lauer
- Bouwe Andela
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Saskia Loosveldt
- Naomi Parsons (minutes)

Apologies:
- Julien Lenhardt
- Romain Beucher

## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    - a) Actions from previous meetings (see below)
    - b) Update on funding proposals
    - c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    - d) Next workshop
2. **Finalise the long-term strategy document**
3. **ESMValTool strategy paper**
4. **AOB**


## Meeting notes

### 1) Standing items

- #### a) Actions from previous meetings

    **Alistair** to communicate the next steps in the process of ACCESS-NRI becoming an official member of the ESMValTool Consortium.
    - **Done**, all organisations have now signed.

    **Axel** to check in with Tina about plans for advertising the November workshop, and gathering input on agenda items.
    - **Done**, workshop was last week.
    
    **Bouwe** to update the Read the Docs page with the planned release dates.
    - **Done**.

    **Ranjini** to open a GitHub issue to update any references to Julia in the tutorial.
    - **Done**.
    
    **Ranjini** to share a summary of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty.
    - A summary of the situation so far was given by Ranjini. Future updates will be provided as relevant.

    **Ranjini** to discuss proposed documentation changes with the User Engagement Team and Tina, with a goal of recommending priority developments that could be tackled at the November 2025 workshop.
    - **Done**, workshop was last week.

    **Saskia** to share details from the release date spreadsheet with the Tech Lead Team.
    - **Done**.


### 2) Finalise the long-term strategy document

Some comments had previously been raised on the draft document and have since been addressed, including at the November ESMValTool workshop. Additionally, the _Vision Statement_ section was noted to be currently rather brief, but it was not considered to be a prioirity to add more at this time. It was also suggested that the _"Who is this [document] for?"_ section could be moved near the top of the document, under authors.

It was discussed how best to include the strategy document on the ESMValTool website, including any future need for archiving previous versions. It was deemed important that the current version should be easy to show to any interested parties, such as for discussion about how potential goals are aligned to the long-term strategy. It was also decided that any future versioning system could be decided upon if and when the need arises.

 - <strong>Action:</strong> Alistair to generate a PDF version of the finalised document.
 - <strong>Action:</strong> Axel to create a pull request to add the document to the website.


### 3) ESMValTool strategy paper

Many conversations have been held, at DLR and elsewhere, about the evolution of ESMValTool over the past ten years, and how flexible the tool has become. It was noted that early users may not be aware of these many changes.

In order to explain how ESMValTool can be used for IPCC and other work, it is proposed that a strategy paper is submitted to a high-ranking European journal ahead of the next release.

Discussion was held around which journals might be appropriate, and Nature (and associations) were suggested. There was further discussion about whether a journal with a faster turnaround  or open-access option might be more beneficial.

Birgit volunteered to take the lead on writing the paper.

 - <strong>Action:</strong> Birgit to circulate an Overleaf document next week with a proposed structure and some bullet points, for input by the wider team.
 - <strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to consider appropriate journals and note these in the document (or contact Birgit directly).


### 4) AOB

Thanks were given to Saskia for all of her time and work on ESMValTool over the years, as she is now moving away from BSC.

Birgit requested any known contact details for contributors not on the ESMValTool mailing list who might like to be involved in ESMValTool's 10 year celebratory video. The deadline for submissions is December 10th.


## Resulting actions

#### Alistair
- Generate a PDF version of the finalised long-term strategy document.

#### Axel
- Create a pull request to add the long-term strategy document to the website.

#### Birgit
- Circulate a structured open document on Overleaf for the ESMValTool strategy paper.

#### Ranjini
- [Ongoing] Continue to share summaries of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty.#### Alistair

#### Everyone
- Engage with Birgit's document for the ESMValTool strategy paper.
