# 2025-05-27 Steering group meeting

Present:

* Alistair Sellar (chair ðŸª‘)
* Axel Lauer
* Birgit Hassler
* Bouwe Andela
* Julien Lenhardt
* Saskia Loosveldt Tomas
* Chris Billows (minutes :stopwatch:)

## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    - a) Actions from previous meetings (***see below***)
    - b) Update on funding proposals
        - Futura (D1-01) - Birgit
        - SERV-02 - Alistair
            - Discuss possible service KPIs
        - Quick question regarding D1-02/Nexus 0 - Julien
    - c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    - d) Next workshop

1. **Steering Group Meeting Secretary**

1. **Schedule of release managers**

1. **Decisions and next steps regarding planning and reporting**

1. **AOB: Ranjini's talking point from the previous meeting**


## Meeting notes

### 1 - Standing Items

#### a) Action items from Last Meeting

##### Everyone

###### Volunteer a 2.13 release manager is still required. A release for the REF was agreed as desirable, but may not be possible.

> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Julien offered, support from senior developers would be greatly helpful.
- âœï¸ Julien, Bouwe and Saskia (release buddy) to discuss timescales and confirm the planned release date.
    - Ref release is planned for start of Oct '25 so before this would be desirable, if possible.

###### Re: ENES Meeting representative. Everyone invited to consider taking the role long term, contact Alistair/Birgit if interested

> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Alistair will participate going forward.

###### Re: Approach to planning and reporting. Everyone to reflect what the agreed principles might mean in practice for planning and reporting

> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Complete


###### Re: Approach to planning and reporting. Everyone also to reflect specifically on the proposed three documents. Goal will be to discuss and agree which documents to create at next Steering Group meeting.

> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Complete


###### Re: REF. Please review PRs tagged with "REF" as a priority (science & technical)

> [!NOTE]
> âœï¸ Still ongoing.


###### Re: Horizon call/training work package. Contact Birgit if willing to assist

> [!NOTE]
> âœï¸ Still open.

##### Birgit

###### Re: Monthly community meetings. Birgit to follow up with Romain.
> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Complete. Felicity and Tina will liase to organize alternating (potentially every 3 or 4 months) meetings.

###### Re: Swedish presentation/tutorial. The tutorial is most likely to be held in after mid-May, but there was no feedback about a concrete timeline yet. As soon as I hear that I will be in contact with Julien.
> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Complete. Tutorial happening 11.06 at Stockholm University. Birgit and Julien coordinating w/ the locals.


###### Re: Horizon call/training work package & global south. Birgit to discuss the training work package with Anna and report back to Steering Group.
> [!NOTE]
> âœï¸ Still required.

##### Bouwe

###### Re: ENES Meeting. Bouwe to confirm Alistair's appointment and future attendance with the ENES data task force
> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Alistair has now been invited to join the DTF. Next meeting 3 June.

###### Re: ENSO diagnostics/PMP. Bouwe will set up a meeting with Romain, Nathan and Jiwoo to figure out who does what
> [!NOTE]
> âœ… Complete. We held a meeting and divided the ENSO diagnostics fairly over PMP and ESMValTool.

##### Ranjini

###### Ranjini to reflect if previous meeting item "liase with Alistair re: materials (steering group/new structure etc.) for next UE meeting" still required and confirm if so (link to previous mtg item [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/Minutes/20250128.md#user-engagement-team-ranjini))
> [!NOTE]
> âœï¸ Still required.

#### b) Update on funding proposals


##### Horizon Call
- Birgit still waiting on news, action item from last meeting is kept open

##### Futura (D1-01)
- Birgit gave a detailed update
- There was discussion of developing ESMValTool side-by-side with Aqua (re: Fair work package)
    - possibily areas for collaboration might be infrastructure, reading in data, re-gridding
    - (Already agreed to collaborate with Aqua on Fixes)

- Question regarding D1-02/Nexus 0 (Julien)
    - re: model development call - causal anomaly detection / detection of extreme events with causal methods
    - Are some people at DLR already working on including this in the call?
    - :pencil2: *Action: ==**BIRGIT:**== Birgit will send contact to Julien re: model development call - causal anomaly detection / detection of extreme events with causal methods*

##### SERV-02
- Alistair gave an update
- A key consideration will be KPI indicators for the proposed service

###### Discussion of potential KPIs
- Ideas Alistair circulated previously: Usage statistics - page impressions for documentation and tutorial
- Other ideas:
    - Conda downloads
    - Count of issues/comments on issues/PRs etc on GitHub (used in ECMS 3)
    - Page views/impressions for REF output generated by ESMValTool
    - Tutorial attendance, tutorial episodes added, or updated to new releases
    - Number of ESMValTool figures in IPCC reports
    - Citations in academic papers
        - Hit and miss if people do it?
        - Make guidance clearer to increase referencing? Common for there to be a "How to Cite" section in the README. Although shown when you run the tool.
        - Problem: citations are slow, potentially one/two years from use to citation in final paper
            - Same with the IPCC figures
    - Mentions (effectively citations) on the Research Software Directory
    - Possible to measure ESMValTool users on levante or JASMIN etc?
        - Ask V as he maintains the ESMValTool module on JASMIN
    - Count new developers, Axel sends welcome emails
- :pencil2: *Action: ==**ALISTAIR:**== Contact V re: measuring ESMValTool use on JASMIN*
- :pencil2: *Action: ==**EVERYONE:**== Please think about further measures of service performance and email Alistair with any ideas*


#### c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions

##### Discussion of adding aerosol analysis (from a KIT researcher)
- Would this widen the scope of ESMValTool too much?
- Agreed contributions are to be encouraged
- It's a question of relevancy/ongoing maintenance for next ~5 years
- Developers should be aware maintenance is expected, or contributions are retired after 1 or 2 releases
- Reference was made to the recent workshop discussions of the "template repo" for publishing one off analysis
- Possibly the group should open an issue detailing their plans, so more specific guidance can be provided

##### Retiring Julia
- Raising awareness in the community this is happening
    - Email list, announcement on GitHub etc.
- :pencil2: *Action: ==**AXEL**== to discuss with ==**RANJINI**== how the user engagement team can assist in communicating the retirement of Julia to the community*


#### d) Next Workshop - TBC

No updates

### 2. Steering Group Meeting Secretary
- This is Chris's last meeting. The group expressed their gratitude
- :pencil2: *Action: ==**EVERYONE:**== Consider if there is anyone at your institute who would benefit from taking over as meeting secretary*


### 3. Schedule of release managers

#### Questions for today:

- Whether the consortium should maintain a schedule of release managers, with an expectation that this is shared approximately evenly among partners. If soâ€¦
- Whether the steering group should take a lead on this (since linked to planning partner contributions) or whether it should be the responsibility of the tech lead team. If the steering group is to lead, thenâ€¦
- How far ahead we should aspire to populate this (and keep it populated) and
- How we should go about agreeing the schedule. Perhaps a one off meeting?

#### Discussion conclusions:
- Creation of a schedule/rota among consortium members was agreed, to make it easier to plan in advance
- The steering group will manage the rota (that is more logical than the tech lead team due to control/planning of funding)
- Agreed one release per partner, per cycle (not necessarily the same order each cycle)
- Therefore the rota will plan six releases ahead
- Aim for releases:
    - 2.13 this year, handled by Julien
    - 3 releases in 2026, 3 releases in 2027
- Ideally institutes will specify all releases they could possibly do, rather than just picking one (but they will then only be allocated one!)
- :pencil2: *Action: ==**ALISTAIR:**== To trigger the discussion with an email/shared Google spreadsheet.*

### 4. **Decisions and next steps regarding planning and reporting**

Deferred to next meeting.

### 5. **AOB: Ranjini's talking point from the previous meeting**

This was the talking point:

> My question towards the end of the meeting related to how we as representatives of consortium partner institutes were expected to "represent" our institutes and if there were some basic guidelines we all had to follow - for e.g report back after every meeting or such. We are not a big number as such but there is quite a bit of diversity in how our orgnaizations function and what career stage we are at within the organizational structure so this may be different for each of us. So it might be good to have some structure in place as a baseline to ensure our institutes are all appropriately represented.

Deferred to next meeting.

## Action Items

### Everyone

- :pencil2: **Re: REF**. Please continue to review PRs tagged with "REF" as a priority (science & technical)
- :pencil2: **Re: Horizon call/training work package** Contact Birgit if willing to assist
- :pencil2: **Re: SERV call KPIs** Please think about further measures of service performance and email Alistair with any ideas
- :pencil2: **Re: Steering Group Meeting Secretary** Please consider anyone at your institute would benefit from taking over as meeting secretary

### Alistair

- :pencil2: **Re: SERV call KPIs** Alistair to contact V re: measuring ESMValTool use on JASMIN
- :pencil2: **Re: Schedule of release managers** Alistair to trigger the discussion with an email/shared Google spreadsheet.

### Axel

- :pencil2: **Re: Retirement of Julia** Axel to discuss with Ranjini how the user engagement team can assist in communicating about the retirement of Julia


### Birgit

- :pencil2: **Re: Horizon call/training work package & global south**. Birgit to discuss the training work package with Anna and report back to Steering Group.

- :pencil2: **Re: DLR Contact** Birgit will send DLR contact to Julien re: model development call - causal anomaly detection / detection of extreme events with causal methods

### Bouwe

- :pencil2: **Re: 2.13 Release** Julien, Bouwe and Saskia (release buddy) to discuss timescales and confirm the planned release date.
    - Ref release is planned for start of Oct '25 so before this would be desirable, if possible.

### Julien

- :pencil2: **Re: 2.13 Release** Julien, Bouwe and Saskia (release buddy) to discuss timescales and confirm the planned release date.
    - Ref release is planned for start of Oct '25 so before this would be desirable, if possible.

### Ranjini

- :pencil2: **Re: retirement of Julia** Axel to discuss with Ranjini how the user engagement team can assist in communicating about the retirement of Julia
- :pencil2: **Re: Previous meeting action item** Ranjini to reflect if January meeting item "liase with Alistair re: materials (steering group/new structure etc.) for next UE meeting" still required and confirm if so (link to previous mtg item [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/blob/main/Steering%20Group/Minutes/20250128.md#user-engagement-team-ranjini))


### Saskia

- :pencil2: **Re: 2.13 Release** Julien, Bouwe and Saskia (release buddy) to discuss timescales and confirm the planned release date.
    - Ref release is planned for start of Oct '25 so before this would be desirable, if possible.