# 2025-07-29 Steering Group Meeting

Present:
- Birgit Hassler (chair)
- Alistair Sellar
- Axel Lauer
- Julien Lenhardt
- Romain Beucher
- Naomi Parsons (minutes)

Apologies:
- Bouwe Andela
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Saskia Loosveldt


## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    a) Actions from previous meetings (see below)
    b) Update on funding proposals
    c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    d) Next workshop
2. **ACCESS-NRI's application to join the ESMValTool consortium**
3. **AOB**


## Meeting notes

### 1. Standing items:

#### a) Actions from previous meetings

- **Pull requests relating to the REF**
Only one PR is left to merge. If necessary, Julien could do this in its current state.
- **Steering Group Meeting Secretary**
Naomi Parsons (Met Office) taking on role.
- **DLR Contact**
Birgit has provided this to Julien.
- **Schedule of release managers**
There exists a spreadsheet of availability.
    <font color="#7D5DD7"><strong>Action:</strong> Birgit and Romain to populate DLR and  ACCESS-NRI columns in the release manager spreadsheet.</font>
   - *Post-meeting note: this is now complete.*

#### b) Update on funding proposals

- **Horizon call - training work package**
There is no specific work package available for this. Some training does already happen through the Futura project.
- **SERV call KPIs**
Choice of KPIs was discussed relating to an evaluation work package in a proposal to HORIZON-INFRA-2025-01-SERV-02.

#### c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions

- **Retirement of Julia**
Axel had already discussed modes of communication with Ranjini Swaminathan but not decided on the person or team (such as User Engagement or Tech) to formulate the communications.
<font color="#7D5DD7"><strong>Action:</strong> Axel and Birgit to notify the relevant channels.</font> These may include:
   - A GitHub disussion.
   - An email to the mailing list.
   - Inclusion in the documentation.

- **2.13 Release** Julien plans ESMValCore and ESMValTool releases for the end of September, ahead of the REF release (which is planned for 18th October 2025).

### 2. ACCESS-NRI's application to join the ESMValTool consortium

Romain has submitted this to Birgit and Alistair, having recently received pre-approval from the relevant organisations. Alistair has obtained a list of steps to be completed in order to progress this:

1. ~~Send (and have received) the formal application~~ [completed].
2. Obtain a unanimous vote of approval to join the consortium by all members of the Steering Group.
3. Obtain document signed by all members.

<font color="#7D5DD7"><strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to vote on ACCESS-NRI's application to join the consortium.</font>

It was discussed whether email voting should be explored, but it was concluded that attendance at the September Steering Group meeting should be assessed first. It was noted that Birgit will be unavailable in September, but Axel will be be present to represent DLR.

<font color="#0BBC6F"><strong>At today's meeting the following members voted in favour of ACCESS-NRI joining the ESMValTool Consortium:</strong>
- Alistair Sellar (Met Office)
- Axel Lauer (DLR)
- Birgit Hassler (DLR)
- Julien Lenhardt (SMHI)</font>
    
No concerns about the application were raised, and it was noted that ACCESS-NRI already contribute a significant amount of work. It was also proposed that the widening of geographical area and time-zone coverage could be beneficial.


### 3. AOB

Birgit has submitted an application for a side session at CMIP 2026 in Kyoto next March, which Birgit, Ranjini and Romain will be attending in-person.


## <font color="#7D5DD7">Action Items (from above)

#### Everyone
- In September's meeting: Vote on ACCESS-NRI's application to join the consortium.
#### Axel
- (With Birgit) Document the retirement of Julia.
#### Birgit
- (With Axel) Document the retirement of Julia.
- ~~Populate Release Manager spreadsheet with DLR availability~~ [completed].
#### Romain
- ~~Populate Release Manager spreadsheet with ACESS-NRI availability~~ [completed].</font>
