# 2025-01-28 Steering group meeting

Present:
* Birgit Hassler (chair ðŸª‘)
* Alistair Sellar
* Axel Lauer
* Bouwe Andela
* Julien Lenhardt
* Ranjini Swaminathan
* Romain Beucher
* Saskia Loosveldt Tomas
* Chris Billows (minutes :stopwatch:)

## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    - a) Actions from previous meetings (***see below***)
    - b) Update on funding proposals
    - c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    - d) Next workshop

1. **CMIP Rapid Evaluation Framework (REF) â€“ BIRGIT/RANJINI**
    - Preparing/coding the recipes and diagnostics expected for the CMIP Rapid Evaluation Framework (REF)
    - Community contributions to the REF
        - Birgit and Ranjini have been discussing 
        - Would like feedback so we can make decisions on how best to work on ESMValTool contributions to REF

1.	**Partner planning and reporting of effort â€“ ALISTAIR**
    - Discussion to:
        - Address question several have posed: â€œhow is the 1 FTE accounted forâ€
        - How do we align plans with each other and with a longer term strategy
        - [Discussion Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zkVtfZ37c00yDyoE_J0gs8pf1cz017qo1fY9xeg29v4/edit#slide=id.p1)  (initial ideas/not a firm proposal)
     - Goals:
        - *This meeting*: no formal decisions - but agree broad principles/approach for next steps
        - *March 25th meeting*: make decisions 

5. **Next steps for ESMValTool long-term strategy - ALISTAIR**
    - If time allows


## Meeting notes

### 1 - Standing Items

#### a) Action items from Last Meeting
    
##### **Re: Consortium Agreement (CA)**

- *Alistair to propose a list of topics to agree how the steering group will work, for agendas of the coming steering group meetings*

> [!NOTE]
> :heavy_check_mark: **Outcome:** Proposed list of steering group governance topics (in no particular order):
> - Principles and practicalities of 1 FTE commitment
> - Annual report: is a requirement of the consortium agreement, and may be a means of encoding the above
> - Shared work plan / roadmap: principles, format, cycle of updating
> - Finalising & approving V1 of long-term strategy; approach to reviewing & updating
> - Guest members / observer status
> - Process for making formal decisions


##### Re: Monthly Community Meetings
- *Ranjini to check with Paul if he is no longer able to organize them*

> [!NOTE]
> :heavy_check_mark: **Outcome:** Paul confirmed he is happy to hand this over
> The group expressed their appreciation for his stint organising them

- *Birgit to check with Tina and Romain if they would be willing to host, perhaps alternating time zones*
> [!NOTE]
> :heavy_check_mark: :pencil2: **Outcome**
> - Tina will take over for "Europe" and has set the first meeting
> - Birgit raised with Romain in the meeting
> - Ranjini suggested also could be Liza or someone west coast based 
> - :pencil2: *Action: **BIRGIT** to follow up with **ROMAIN***

#### b) Update on funding proposals

##### ESA Climate Space Proposal (Axel)
- Still pending confirmation of project selection

##### Horizon Europe - Paris Meeting (Birgit)
- Birgit attended
- Brainstrom of the European players, very well attended
- Nothing decided on technical part of the proposal
- Project frame extended to EUR 30M (from ~ EUR 25M)
- Birgit represented ESMValTool, and what it can contribute to the REF
- funding call not officially out
    - Next step will be small groups to draft pillars
    - May/may not include us

##### ENES-RI 
- ENES-RI AISBL statutes went out to their distribution list (in case people missed)
- There is a new SERV call (not D1/D2) due in Summer 2025
- Look out for new documents in February


#### c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions

##### User Engagement team (Ranjini)
-	Ranjini starting to organise bi-monthly meetings with intention to alternate time zones (Ranjini has volunteered to attend both)
-	Ranjini requested material from Alistair given new structure / steering group etc.
    - :pencil2: *Action: **RANJINI** and **ALISTAIR:** Liase re: materials for next UE meeting*


##### Tech-lead team (Bouwe)
- The release process for version 2.12 starting soon, with Saskia as release manager 
- There are no further release managers in place
    - :pencil2: *Action: **EVERYONE:** Volunteer a 2.13 release manager*
- Discussions have taken place about splitting the Tool and Core documentation 
    - Make it less confusing for users
    - Felicity is leading
- Good progress on the new config file format (appreciation to Manuel)
    - This will be part of v2.12
- Bouwe no longer availble on Mondays
    - ENES data task force meetings are on a Monday
    - Bouwe is trying to move them but it may not be possible
    - Alistair commented it's critical to maintain a representative
    - :pencil2: *Action: **BOUWE:** To confirm if the ENES meeting can be moved, or if a new represenative is needed*

##### Science Lead team (Axel)
Discussed were:
- Process for retiring recipes/diagnostics, notes will be available in the sci-team repo soon
- Benefits of/ideas for restructuring the documentation to better aid users
    - :pencil2: *Action: **AXEL:** Will approach the tech-lead team to explore feasability of science team suggestions*
- CMIP7 ref conftributions, also refer to notes in the sci-team repo

##### Additional (Birgit)
- ESMValTool submitted for an EGU splinter meeting
    - Awaiting response, but hopefully follows successful acceptance last year
- Birgit invited to give a presentation/tutorial in Sweden
    - Suggests Julien attend also
    - :pencil2: *Action: **BIRGIT** and **JULIEN:** Birgit to follow up with Julien*
- ESMValTool will be featured/spotlight repo on Helmholz RSD (Research Software Directory) from 12th - 22nd February
    - [RSD](https://helmholtz.software/)
    - [ESMValTool on RSD](https://helmholtz.software/software/earth-system-model-evaluation-tool-esmvaltool)
    - Birgit and Bouwe updated the content after the meeting

#### d) Next Workshop

- Dates are fixed for  May 13th - 15th, add it to your calendars!
- Hybrid with in-person at DLR, Oberpfaffenhofen 
- For 14th/15th Ranjini can only attend remotely at the Met Office / perhaps in a shared space with other MO attendees?
    - :pencil2: *Action: **ALISTAIR**: To book the finest facilities the Met Office has to offer*


### 2 - CMIP Rapid Evaluation Framework (REF) â€“ BIRGIT/RANJINI

- ESMValTool is one of four different evaluation tools hosted for incoming simulations from AR7 fast track
- Plan was approved by CMIP panel
- Flurry of activities and tight deadlines
- Metrics assigned to each package [official link for the ref](https://github.com/orgs/CMIP-REF/projects/2/views/1)
- Status of ESMValTool list:
    - some have a diagnostic and recipe
    - some have a diagnostic and no recipe
    - some have neither
- Bouwe is stress testing on 10th March, so our ideal deadline for brunt of work is end February
- The beta release is due early May
    - :pencil2: *Action: **BOUWE**: To clarify the deadline for all recipes*
- Work is ongoing ([ESMValTool Issue: CMIP7 REF recipes](https://github.com/esMValGroup/esMValTool/issues/3824))
    - Bouwe has done two already
    - Manuel working on TCRE
    - Tina working on ZEC
        - :pencil2: *Action: **ALISTAIR**: Check with Chris Jones for Python code that could help*
    - Liza, Axel and Diego working on cloud diagnostics
    - Ranjini working on global warming levels/ensemble spreads, different CORDEX regions, for impact and adaptations
        - Needs help with two fields, time series/trends for different CORDEX regions (no shape file, issue [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3881)).
            - :pencil2: *Action: **ALISTAIR**: Check with MO people for shape file/other assistance*
    - DLR at max capacity, Birgit opened the floor for more help
        - :pencil2: *Action: **EVERYONE**: Consider what resource, if any, they can allocate to the REF effort*
    - Romain raised ENSO diagnostics
        - They have 23/24 diagnostics ready to go likely in Feb (after Austrailia vacation period)
        - PMP is assigned ENSO, but may not do everything, e.g. they don't do ocean ([PMP/ENSO](https://pcmdi.github.io/pcmdi_metrics/metrics_enso.html))
        - :pencil2: *Action: **BOUWE**: To confirm which ENSO diagnostics PMP will provide*

### 3 - Partner planning and reporting of effort â€“ ALISTAIR
- Alistair presented [discussion slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zkVtfZ37c00yDyoE_J0gs8pf1cz017qo1fY9xeg29v4/edit#slide=id.p1)
- A short discussion followed
    - Re: principles
        - Consider how we make them measurable
        - E.g. trust
        - How to guarantee/measure we hold true to them?
- Group expressed appreciation to Alistair for the slides as introduction to the topic
- Will look to agree firm actions in the March meeting
- :pencil2: *Action: **EVERYONE**: Reflect / gather thoughts for March meeting*

### AOB
- No other business	

## Action Items

### Everyone

- :pencil2: **Action:** Volunteer a 2.13 release manager
- :pencil2: **Action:** Consider what resource, if any, they can allocate to the REF effort
- :pencil2: **Action:** Reflect & gather thoughts on partner planning (Alistair's slides), for March meeting

### Alistair

- :pencil2: **Action:** (and **RANJINI**) Liase re: materials (steering group/new structure etc.) for next UE meeting
- :pencil2: **Action:** For the workshop (May 13th-15th), book the finest facilities the Met Office has to offer
- :pencil2: **Action:** Re: Tina working on ZEC. Check with Chris Jones for Python code that could help
- :pencil2: **Action:** Re: Ranjini working on global warming levels/ensemble spreads, diff CORDEX regions. Check with MO people for shape file/other assistance


### Birgit
- :pencil2: **Action:** (and **ROMAIN**) Re: Monthly community meetings. Birgit to follow up with Romain
- :pencil2: **Action:** (and **JULIEN**) Re: Swedish presentation/tutorial. Birgit to follow up with Julien

### Bouwe
- :pencil2: **Action:** To confirm if the ENES meeting can be moved, or if a new represenative is needed
- :pencil2: **Action:** To confirm which ENSO diagnostics PMP will provide
- :pencil2: **Action:** To clarify the REF deadline for all recipes

### Julien
- :pencil2: **Action:** (and **BIRGIT**) Re: Swedish presentation/tutorial. Birgit to follow up with Julien

### Ranjini
- :pencil2: **Action:** (and **ALISTAIR:**) Liase re: structure/steering group materials for next UE meeting

### Romain
- :pencil2: **Action:** (and **BIRGIT**) Re: Monthly community meetings. Birgit to follow up with Romain
