# 2026-01-27 Steering Group meeting

Present:
- Alistair Sellar (chair)
- Axel Lauer
- Birgit Hassler
- Bouwe Andela
- Julien Lenhardt
- Romaine Beucher
- Naomi Parsons (minutes)

Apologies:
- Ranjini Swaminathan


## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    a) Actions from previous meetings (see below)
    b) Update on funding proposals
    c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    d) Next workshop
2. **Readiness of REF-with-ESMValTool** – how can the ESMValTool consortium / community help to get the REF working with ESMValTool?
3. **Matomo analytics** (see https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/2520) - who needs this data?
4. Bumped to next meeting: **ESMValTool Contributor License Agreement** – recap on why, and proposed implementation plan.
5. **AOB**

## Meeting notes

### 1) Standing items

- #### a) Actions from previous meetings

    **Alistair to generate a PDF version of the finalised long-term strategy document.**
    This has been completed (see Axel's action below).
    
    **Axel to create a pull request to add the long-term strategy document to the website.**
    This has been completed and the strategy document is on the ESMValTool website:
    https://esmvaltool.org/strategy/
    
    **Birgit to circulate a structured open document on Overleaf for the ESMValTool strategy paper.**
    This was done but not everyone seems to have access.
    It was noted that other intercomparison tools are beginning to advertise their future plans, and that many of these features are already present in ESMValTool. It was therefore noted that getting this paper published in the near future would be desirable.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Birgit to resend the link.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to let Birgit know of any issues.
    
    **Ranjini to continue to share summaries of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty [Ongoing].**
    This is ongoing.
    
    **Everyone to engage with Birgit's document for the ESMValTool strategy paper.**
    There have not been many comments so far.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to comment on this.


- #### b) Update on funding proposals
    Birgit is now on the ENES-RI MTHPC Task Force (Models, Tools and High Performance Computing), with Bouwe continuing to sit on the Data Task Force.


- #### c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    Manuel Schlund is release manager for the next release, with help from Tina Gier and Felicity Chun.
    
    There is ESMValTool training planned for immediately after the next workshop (to be held an The Met Office (UK).


- #### d) Next workshop
    Dates for this have already been sent out. It was discussed whether now is an appropriate time to send out registration forms, but concluded that now was a good time to advertise the workshop and offer letters of invitation to those needing visas instead.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Alistair to advertise the upcoming workshop, including offering to help with letters of invitation.

    There was discussion of what topics to focus on in this workshop, and how to choose agenda items to realise these. Scheduling the coding sessions to be drop-in support sessions for new and existing users was suggested. It was also suggested that targeted sessions including "Getting started with CMIP7 data in ESMValTool" or "Getting started with ESMValTool for the IPCC" might be useful.
    - <strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to think about agenda items and how these might support the overall focus.

    There was some discussion of the autumn/fall workshop and acknowledgement that alternating between in-person and remote seemed to have been working well.


### 2) Readiness of REF-with-ESMValTool

The importance of ensuring that ESMValTool works with CMIP7 data for the REF was reiterated. The main tasks involved in this were summarised as follows: 
- 1. Making the REF work with CMIP7
     - a. Update the REF so it understands how to run ESMValTool with CMIP7 data
          - i. Update data requirements for CMI7 and add test cases
          - ii. Update recipe writing routine CMIP7
          - iii. Update ESMValTool results handling for CMIP7
          - iv. Update writing ESMValTool configuration so it can find CMIP7 data
     - b. Updating the ESMValTool diagnostic scripts where/if needed so they work with CMIP7
- 2. Making the REF work operationally
     - a. Fix bugs we encounter when we start running the REF on larger amounts of data (in the REF, ESMValTool, ESMValCore, Iris, ..). That means: looking at the results at https://staging.climate-ref.org/diagnostics?view=cards and investigating all failures, see if it's a data quality or a software issue and address the software issues.
     - b. Improve computational performance
          - i. use the virtual Zarr files instead of NetCDF
          - ii. investigate if we can make some of the slow diagnostics faster, e.g. the regional historical diagnostics
     - c. Make use of obs4MIPs data instead of ESMValTool OBS and OBS6 data

Tasks 1.b., 2.a. and 2.c. were identified as being suitable for the community to help with.

Discussion was held around finding or creating suitable CMIP7 data with which to test ESMValTool. A script already exists to make CMIP6 data look like CMIP7 data. Ranjini has been working with Paul Smith from the CMIP-IPO to make sure data is available. Jared Lewis is planning to run test CMIP7 data through ESMValTool in the REF to see what breaks. The responsibility to fix any broken recipes will then sit with the ESMValTool community.
 - <strong>Action:</strong> Birgit to check with Ranjini and Jared whether anything further is needed for Obs4ref.


### 3) Matomo analytics

Bouwe demonstrated the dashboard and data so far. It was decided that access should be shared with some subset of the User Engagement Team, even if this was only one or two people (in addition to Bouwe).
 - <strong>Action:</strong> Birgit to ask who would be best suited to this in the User Engagement Team meeting.

There was discussion about encouraging more people to join the User Engagement Team.
 - <strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to think of people in their organisations who might be suitable to join the UET, perhaps at "trainee" level.


### 4) ESMValTool Contributor License Agreement

This discussion was postposed until the next Steering Group meeting.


## Resulting actions

#### Alistair
- Advertise the upcoming workshop, including offering to help with letters of invitation.

#### Birgit
- Re-circulate the structured open document on Overleaf for the ESMValTool strategy paper.
- Check with Ranjini and Jared whether anything is needed for Obs4ref.
- Ask who would be best suited to having access to the Matomo analytics in the User Engagement Team meeting.

#### Ranjini
- Continue to share summaries of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty [ongoing].

#### Everyone
- Comment on Birgit's document for the ESMValTool strategy paper.
- Consider whether anyone in their organisation might be suitable to join the User Engagement Team.
