# 2026-03-31 Steering Group Meeting

Present:
- Birgit Hassler (chair)
- Alistair Sellar
- Axel Lauer
- Bouwe Andela
- Ranjini Swaminathan
- Romaine Beucher
- Supriyo Ghosh
- Naomi Parsons (minutes)

Apologies:
 - Julien Lenhardt


## Agenda

1. **Standing items:**
    a) Actions from previous meetings (see below)
    b) Update on funding proposals
    c) Updates from (ESMValTool and wider) community discussions
    d) Next workshop
2. **Information about the REF launch in Kyoto.**
3. **ESMValTool Contributor License Agreement** (bumped from last meeting) – recap on why, and proposed implementation plan.
4. **AOB**


## Meeting notes

Introductions were exchanged between Supriyo Ghosh, BCS's representative on the ESMValTool Steering Group, and other members of the steering group.

It was noted that the accession of ACCESS-NRI to the consortium has now completed and Romain was welcomed as a full member of the steering group.

### 1. Standing items

#### a) Actions from previous meetings

   **Alistair to advertise the upcoming workshop, including offering to help with letters of invitation.**
   This is still to do.
  - <strong>Action:</strong> Alistair to send these out.
    - *Post-meeting note: dates and details now sent.*
   
   **Birgit to re-circulate the structured open document on Overleaf for the ESMValTool strategy paper.**
   This was done and more comments have been received.
  - <strong>Action:</strong> Birgit to read all the comments.
   
   **Birgit to check with Ranjini and Jared whether anything is needed for Obs4ref.**
   Done. Nothing is needed.

   **Birgit to ask who would be best suited to having access to the Matomo analytics in the User Engagement Team meeting.**
   Bouwe has given access to Birgit, Lisa and Ranjini (members of the User Engagement Team).
   
   **Ranjini to continue to share summaries of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty [ongoing].**
   No relevant discussions have taken place recently, but Ranjini will soon talk with Claire MacIntosh from the ESA. Consideration is already being given to the next phase, but the REF will not be implementing any metrics for observational uncertainty.

   **Everyone to comment on Birgit's document for the ESMValTool strategy paper.**
   These have been received.
   
   **Everyone to consider whether anyone in their organisation might be suitable to join the User Engagement Team.**
   Nobody has yet been suggested. It was noted that Lisa Bock will be chairing the UET this year.
  - <strong>Action:</strong> Everyone to continue to consider this.

Discussion was then directed to the first new item on the agenda.

### 2. Information about the REF launch in Kyoto

The final REF launch has now taken place and the tool is ready for CMIP7 data, although no CMIP7 data yet exists.

Much excitment from IPCC authors and the community in general has been noticed, with suggestions for new diagnostics in the fields of paleo, ocean and tipping point climate analyses all having been suggested.

Much consideration was given to what aspects of future work might be covered by existing funding sources and what new potential funding sources might be appropriate. 

Points of discussion in this area included:
 - Whether the full capabilities of the REF would be needed in all cases or whether having a diagnostic within ESMValTool (but not the REF) would sometimes be suitable. It was noted that extra work would be required to take a recipe from ESMValTool to being in the REF, and that there may be choices around whether to prioritise getting more diagnostics into only ESMValTool or fewer diagnostics all the way to being in the REF. It was noted that if a figure can already be produced with ESMValTool, then there would be less impetus to complete any further steps.
 - That use of ESMValTool by new communities (such as paleoclimatology scientists) may open new avenues to funding, and that group members may already have contacts in relevant organisations.
 - That Bouwe is already working on a prototype product that may be suitable for fixing errors in metadata and otherwise correcting ESGF data to make it work with the REF in https://github.com/ESMValGroup/fixer-prototype, but funding for this is very limited.
 - That there would be differences between funds to provide guidance allowing others to contribute and those that directly cover development.

It was noted that the REF has been beneficial in raising the profile of ESMValTool and in providing an interface that starts to overcome a perception of ESMValTool being complicated to use.

### 3. ESMValTool Contributor License Agreement

Alistair reminded everyone that there had been prior discussion on the adoption of a CLA for ESMValGroup repositories on GitHub and reiterated the purpose of these as protection from potential future complaints in terms of code rights. It had previously been agreed that the Met Office could shoulder the "bureaucratic overhead".

It is planned that a new GitHub account, accessible by both Alistair and Birgit, should act as owner of the CLA, in part to minimise the risk of needing contributors to re-sign if there were a change of ownership.

It was proposed that all ESMValGroup repositories should be covered by the CLA, as code may migrate from private to public repos as it is developed. This should be done as a single signing be each developer to cover work in all ESMValGroup repos.

It is proposed that signing of the agreement can take place on the first day of the upcoming workshop, to allow time for working out any difficulties.
  - <strong>Action:</strong> Alistair to prepare information on the CLA in time for the workshop in May.


### 4. AOB

Further comments were raised on the following subjects:

#### The next workshop
The focus of the next workshop is proposed to be on using ESMValTool with CMIP7 data and for the IPCC. There are difficulties with the availablity of CMIP7 data and no guarantee that these will be resolved by May. It was mentioned that mock CMIP7 data could be produced.

#### The next release
Version 2.14 was released this month (March 2026) but did not contain "major" changes ([changelog](https://docs.esmvaltool.org/projects/ESMValCore/en/latest/changelog.html#v2-14-0)). It was noted that the 2.16 release planned in autumn is more likely to be disruptive because support for the old-style developer configuration will be removed in that version. Ranjini and Bouwe plan to talk about any changes that should be made to the tutorials.


## Resulting actions

#### Alistair
- Advertise the upcoming workshop.
  - *Post-meeting note: dates and details now sent.*
- Prepare information on the CLA in time for the workshop in May.

#### Birgit
- Read all comments on the ESMValTool strategy paper.

#### Ranjini
- Continue to share summaries of any future conversations held by the model benchmarking task team regarding observational uncertainty [ongoing].

#### Everyone
- Continue to consider whether anyone in their organisation might be suitable to join the User Engagement Team.
