# Tech lead meeting September 2021

## Assistants:

@alistairsellar
@bouweandela
@bsolino
@jvegasbsc
@remi-kazeroni
@sloosvel
@valeriupredoi
@zklaus

## Publicity of Teach Lead Meetings

There were an open question from @alistairsellar about the possibility of having
an observer in the Teach Lead meetings. This question quickly broaden into a
discussion about the full publicity of the meetings.

To follow with the ESMValTool philosophy of being open by default,
it was decided to make the meetings open to everybody regardless of role. Only
members of the Teach Lead team will have vote in the decisions but all opinions
are welcome. Meetings will be publicly announced, but they will not be as advertised
as the monthly meetings, as this are not mean to be an entry point to the
community.

Agendas and minutes will be kept in a GitHub project (this one) so everybody
can check pass and future meetings contents.

## Contributor License Agreement

@alistairsellar reports that MetOffice lawyers strongly recommend that the
ESMValTool project adopts a contributor license agreement.
This recommendation is mean to protect the project from
lawsuits from contributors, in particular to avoid contributors suing the
consortium for distributing code without the rights to do so.

Final decision will probably be made at a higher level, but anyway the opinion
of the teach lead team on this matter is requested.

First issue here is that no member here is expert enough to have a strong opinion
and that the position of other institutes on it is not clear.

The second concern is that we may not be able to get all past contributors to
sign a CLA. This was already expected by MetOffice lawyers and they stressed that
having only some parts of the code under CLA is still better than none.

Another concern expressed by the teach lead team is that some other projects
have abused CLAs to close former open source projects and that this, along with
an extra bureaucratic burden, will be an issue. In general, we need to address
carefully its advantages against its potential to drive off some contributors.
For a good article against the adoption of CLAs, see:
https://ben.balter.com/2018/01/02/why-you-probably-shouldnt-add-a-cla-to-your-open-source-project/

It is also remarked that the GitHub terms of service can give us same of the
protection that we may get from the CLA. We will need the opinion of the lawyers
on this, though See:

https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-terms-of-service#6-contributions-under-repository-license


## Any other bussiness:

### Release procedure

From now on, ESMValCore will be first released as a release candidate first to
allow us to fix whatever bugs appear when testing ESMValTool. Both public
releases will be done at the same time.

### Julia support

Julia support is becoming a problem for little gain, as we are still having
only one recipe using it. The main issue is that it is not easy to package,
as it has its own environment management and expects all codes to use their own.

The other main reason to consider dropping support for it is that it is still
not gaining traction between scientists, mostly because it lacks lots of libraries
that are commonplace in Python or R, so any potential gains from switching are
offset for the extra amount of work required to do nearly everything from scratch.

In order to keep the support but reduce the burden, we will experiment with
replacing the direct download of Julia binaries with its conda package and see
if that improves the situation.

### Testing

@zklaus asked to remove conda build from our tests, as this is now done in
conda-forge directly. We agreed to reevaluate our testing infrastructure to
avoid redundancies.







