Technical Lead Call
===================

*Minutes 11 February 2021*

- Attendance: Klaus, Bouwe, Brei, Remi, Manu, Saskia, V
- Next meetings convener/frequency: V/bi-monthly
- Saskia: her dept. needs a **Roadmap**
  - Bouwe points us to the existing roadmap: https://www.esmvaltool.org/roadmap.html
  - Klaus/Bouwe: this should be responsability of the Steering Group (which is not yet)
  - Saskia clarifies: more what's gonna be in the next releases
  - Klaus/Bouwe/Remi: work with Milestones more (various points about Milestones)
  - Klaus: keep the current roadmap at high-level, attach Release planning, and Milestones
    part of a more detailed -> Steering Group + Interpanel
  - **Point in case:** if every PR should have a Milestone attached to it. This would help users
    know what's gonna be in the next release(s) - **sounds good from everyone**
- Bouwe: we have to update the release schedule and release managers: **possible Saskia**
- Bouwe/Remi: decide on a big 3.0? We need to talk about a major release, but..
- ...Klaus: we should do the 2.X's further down the line; continue with 2.X
  and assign "2.X" version names to Milestones
- Klaus: number of open pull resquests has dimished
  - Manu: auto closing of issues/PRs if no activity (`iris`-style)
  - Bouwe: still relevant even if there is no activity
  - Klaus: suggesting keeping things as they are assigning Milestones will control this better
- Bouwe: PRIMAVERA work gonna get finished?
  - Saskia: her work is done; Javi's bit will be disbanded
  - Klaus: limited interest overall, but there may still be interest even now ->
    some stuff is interesting
  - Bouwe: rather keep the attitude of helping with diags rather than write them for scientists
  - Klaus: we got praised at the Workshop as a solid community
  - Klaus: some PRIMAVERA diags are still very relevant: blocking, heat content etc ->
    we'll contact *some* of the developers see what we can do about them - Klaus will
    do that (thanks, dude!)
- Birgit: ESMValTool is THE German model evaluator, we can now ask for programming help,
  to integrate various external packages/functionalities - proposals start in early/mid summer!
  Sounds very promising: Birgit will update us with more details as they come;

Action items
============

- remove package recipes since we don't do the build via tests anymore
- Have a look at https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/2527

Next Call Topics
================
*Add your topics here*

- Klaus: large OBS/automatic OBS updates/download - large files and chunking 
- Look at https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/2527 and discuss/decide on
  the linting scheme
- ...

  

