## Minutes of call 23 June 2022

**Attendance**: all the usual suspects (@bouweandela @bsolino @ehogan @hb326 @remi-kazeroni @schlunma @sloosvel @valeriupredoi @zklaus)


**Shtuff discussed**:
- release ESMValCore 2.6 on track (thanks @sloosvel :beer: ): a few issues with recipes that use NCL diags but these will be looked into, they arise from diags only ; RC2 is out and about;
- Klaus: CLA (Emma: +1 industry placement (or intern) at MO for app demo); CreateIP (NASA interested in our CMORizer/auto dll data, demo CMORizer by Bouwe; V offered help to brag on Facebook NASA is interested in us :laughing: );
- we'll have the iris developments call next week: Emma asked we create a Zoom meeting for the iris stuff next week, dates: **July 1st 1-3pm UK time/2-4pm those pesky Europeans time**;
- Klaus: propose talking about community building - new people at our GitHub home - community building skills to be discussed: Bouwe is restarting the monthly meeting as a starter for those to join, to be taken over by our lovely Tina afterwards;
- Bouwe: PR review situation to be discussed in a forthcoming call (bit of unhappiness at the mo about how PRs are handled). 
