## Technical Lead Call 19 September 2023 (online)

**NOTE** this call is the September 5th scheduled call, that had to be postponed by two weeks,
due to all manners of holidays.

## Participants
- Attendees: @valeriupredoi @sloosvel @bouweandela @bsolino @zklaus
- Absentees: @schlunma @ehogan
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi

  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Klaus Zimmermann [@zklaus](https://github.com/zklaus)
    - Saskia Sloosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Breixo Solino [@bsolino](https://github.com/bsolino)
    - Emma Hogan [ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2023.07|@ehogan|KGO recording solutions|See [ESMValTool: discussion: #3247](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3247) for the latest news|
|2023.07|@bouweandela, @remi-kazeroni|Asking the community to check the output once for all| @ehogan: see [ESMValTool: discussion: #3247](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3247) for some additional thoughts on this|
|2023.07|@valeriupredoi|Shared gmail account to handle to Zenodo credentials|pending|
|2023.09|@bouweandela|Application for PyPI premium account (made)|pending|
|2023.09|@schlunma|Talk about our Lord Savior GRIB|pending|

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)

- @zklaus: authentication on PyPI; PyPI now supports organizations
- (Question) @valeriupredoi: situation on Docker (wrt pay plan/open organization status renewal)
- @bouweandela: Upcoming release?
- (Announcement) @valeriupredoi: I can't make the October 3rd TLT (UKESM Retreat)

## Agenda
- @zklaus: authentication on PyPI; PyPI now supports organizations
- (Question) @valeriupredoi: situation on Docker (wrt pay plan/open organization status renewal)
- @bouweandela: Upcoming release?
- (Announcement) @valeriupredoi: I can't make the October 3rd TLT (UKESM Retreat)
- GRIB support

## Topics discussed

- @zklaus: authentication on PyPI; two separate items authntication and ownership (individuals and, now, organizations): for organizations we can create an "ESMValGroup" organization that has ownership; action item: go for organization and who wants to be added? @sloosvel: how individual credentials are stored? @zklaus: have an account in PyPI that gets added to the organization - we are all in favour to create an organization! @zklaus is already creating one as we speak - organization creation submitted for review on 19 September 2023! Authentication now: open an issue and discuss there [Issue 2195](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2195)
- Docker situation: we got downgraded to the free plan and are awaiting a decision from Docker on our re-application to their sponsored open-source plan, see https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2190 for the current status. We expect an update before the next meeting and if we are not admitted to the open source program we may want to  to consider alternatives such as the GitHub container registry.
- Upcoming release: we should review @schlunma's contributions plus @bsolino's new HTML contributions;
- grib support: ERA5 data stored as NetCDF at DRKZ has quality issues, see https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3238 - the cause could be the netCDF-conversion server by ECMWF (which is experimental, as @bouweandela mentions) - this brings in the question if/how much we need to support ``grib`` and its special regridding need, which @schlunma has implemented IO/regridding for in [PR 2178](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2178) - we should talk to Manu about the timeline with which he expects this to be included in the tool. @zklaus Proposes to investigate what variants of ERA5 are out there and to use separate dataset names for them.
