## Technical Lead Call 12 January 2023

### Date and participants

- Names legend:
  - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
  - Klaus Zimmermann [@zklaus](https://github.com/zklaus)
  - Remi Kazeroni [@remi-kazeroni](https://github.com/remi-kazeroni)
  - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
  - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
  - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
  - Breixo Solino [@bsolino](https://github.com/bsolino)
- Date: 12 January 2023 2pm UK time (3pm CEST)
- Participants: @bouweandela @zklaus @remi-kazeroni @sloosvel @valeriupredoi @schlunma @bsolino
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi and @remi-kazeroni
- Agenda in [comment](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/68#discussioncomment-4667572)

### Topics discussed

Topics added to the [discussion item page](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/68)

1. From last call, still to be discussed/addressed:

  - common Gmail address to share credentials for services used to develop ESMValTool. See [here](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/62#discussioncomment-4119360) (@valeriupredoi: fuuuu... forgot again, will do TODAY ie 12 January 2023)
  - *Documentation* @valeriupredoi will update the release documentation early January, previous release managers can then take a look
  - [Release procedure: documentation of the release process](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/62#discussioncomment-4390307)
  - [Release procedure: Strategy to run all recipes](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/62#discussioncomment-4119346)
  - [Release procedure: Administration of the VM and its usage during the release](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/62#discussioncomment-4148563)

2. [Opening Slack for the general public](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/68#discussioncomment-4399940):
  - @bouweandela, @zklaus: would be positive about that
  - @valeriupredoi, @remi-kazeroni: have some reservations that users would stop using github to report issues.
  - @saskia: experience from other projects not very positive
  - Opening access: to be discussed with the other teams. As a first step we could open access to other teams and structure our Slack a bit more.

3. [Discussing 2.8 release](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/68#discussioncomment-4668496):
   - @bouweandela
     - a bit slower since review is at a premium - ESMValGroup/ESMvalCore#1877 is close to be merged (dataset versioning is important);
     - ESMValGroup/ESMvalCore#1609 is important but needs an overhaul of recipes handling -> maybe include it after release? Downside: IS-ENES3 feature will not be included (@remi-kazeroni stresses the fact that it's an IS-ENES3 milestone release);
     - @bouweandela suggests @remi-kezeroni decides if this is really needed for the IS-ENES3-themed release;
     - @valeriupredoi possible to delay the release so we can get that bug PR in, and test only once;
     - @zklaus may be a problem once the IS-ENES3 money dried up? @bouweandela says his money is on low, so big feature work should be done by April
     - @bouweandela sets the roadmap: ESMValGroup/ESMvalCore#1877 into `main` then `main` back into ESMValGroup/ESMvalCore#1609 that will be split in little pullets
     - @bouweandela - testing should (normally) be done only for the release
   - going through PRs for 2.8 milestone list, and discussing which one is good to be in the release or not;
     - @schlunma ESMValGroup/ESMvalCore#1664 will be reviewed by @bsolino and @bouweandela 
   - going through the 2.8 milestone issues also;
     - one thing is the CMOR obs4mips tables are ye olde https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/1890
     - don't pin iris
  Conclusion: **Delay release by 2 wks**
