## Technical Lead Call 16 May 2023

### Date and participants

- Names legend:
  - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
  - Klaus Zimmermann [@zklaus](https://github.com/zklaus)
  - Remi Kazeroni [@remi-kazeroni](https://github.com/remi-kazeroni)
  - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
  - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
  - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
  - Breixo Solino [@bsolino](https://github.com/bsolino)
  - Emma Hogan [ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)
- Date: 16 May 2023 1pm UK time (2pm CEST)
- Participants: @bouweandela @zklaus @remi-kazeroni @sloosvel @valeriupredoi @schlunma @ehogan
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi and @remi-kazeroni
- Agenda in [comment](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86#discussioncomment-5914977)

### Quick round of updates

- Remi: DLR applied to get support from an RSE for the Daskification of the Core: they'll start in June for 6 months
  - Bouwe, Saskia, Klaus and V are interested in discussing with them
- Bouwe: availability about 1.5 day/week; funding ran out, sadly;
  - also about a retrospective meeting (maybe at SMHI? if everyone's there: Emma will be remote)
- Saskia: been working on the lazy regridder (not yet lazy, in the process - help from Iris folk)
- Klaus: ISENES3 reporting; new RSE who's now involved in ESMValTool
  - netCDF/ESMF work on conda-forge (nompi will start working with ESMF soon)
- Emma: help with support; work on MO-internal CEW (climate evaluation workflow)
- V: tech stuff (Python 3.11 etc)
- Manu: ICON developments (issues detected in grids reading) - continuing with this

### Topics discussed:

1. [v2.9 Release](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86#discussioncomment-5653224)

  - Remi: delayed 2.8 for valid reasons, iris=3.6 is coming out this week
  - Bouwe: configuration of iris with DASK (at scheduler-level), feature out in iris=3.6 so it's good to have it in ESMValTool new release; possible good: discuss how to extend the configuration
  - Klaus: supports a timely release even if it's a slim one; raising the fixed deps issue for a release, to preserve the environment at release point
  - Saskia: autumn release is already very slim, possibly no point for 2 slim releases
  - Manu: most pressing issue atm is the RM: do we have anyone? Bouwe's a legend and he might do the June release; Klaus is a legend too - possible RM for the October one
  - **We do have the next v2.9 RM: Bouwe (Remi helping out)**
  - **We do have the next v3.0(?) RM: Klaus (Bouwe helping out)**
  - possibly discuss if "3.0" at the workshop
  - Emma: willing to shadow a RM to learn, and pass the expertise to MO.

2. [Python 3.11](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86#discussioncomment-5904325)

  - Bouwe: a good idea to act now, to spot possible issues
  - Manu: do we expect problems with python=3.11? - Bouwe: not so much with 3.11, but rather, with pins that restrict other packages (eg esmpy, cartopy etc); ideally the RTW would detect such issues;
  - Remi: better a bugfix release that doesn't include all developments of Core (since 2.8 release); good: a barebones bugfix (just the bits that allow support for 3.11)
  - Klaus: bugfix release in the truest sense - that just adds (bug) fixes, and we've done these before - that will fall in the right category
  - Saskia: users' perspective: users don't really follow bugfix releases, a lot use older versions
  - Klaus: possibility do a "dev" Core release (the dev channel in conda) - detached from Tool using latest Core version
  - Emma: severe Core bug at MO (location extractor not working due to peculiar SSL settings at MO - now fixed in Core main)
  - Klaus: have in mind the central installations too: we need a reliable set of bugfix releases
  - Bouwe: distinguish between bugfixes (bug+fixes) and dependencies pins/upgrades - that may cause a lot of problems
  - Klaus: how about a 2.8.1rc0 that we use for testing recipes
  - **Emerging decision: a 2.8.1rc0 on Friday and Remi tests recipes next week**

3. Other topics

  - **Update the v2.9 milestone table:** https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/milestone/15
  - Manu: give an indication of availability (for reviewers): ask on Slack, remind ppl
  - Klaus: a few PRs that are still hanging about that need to be finished before 2.9 release
    - PR in question: https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/1894
    - configuration issue: have a first look/agreement then have us a good discussion about it at the workshop
  - Manu needs a review and merge of https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/1988
  - Klaus+Pep+Saskia: set up a meeting about CORDEX shtuff
  - Remi: help get rid of outdated topics in https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86
  - **Idea to have regular TLT calls at a fixed time each month (1 hour)**
    - V will set up a doodle to find a date for early June.
