## Technical Lead Call 10 October 2023 (online; special - ESMValCore=2.10 release)

## Participants
- Attendees: @ehogan @valeriupredoi @bouweandela @schlunma @zklaus
- Absentees: @sloosvel
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi

  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Klaus Zimmermann [@zklaus](https://github.com/zklaus)
    - Saskia Sloosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)

## Pending Action Items

| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2023.07|@ehogan|KGO recording solutions|See [ESMValTool: discussion: #3247](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3247) for the latest news|
|2023.07|@bouweandela, @remi-kazeroni|Asking the community to check the output once for all| @ehogan: see [ESMValTool: discussion: #3247](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3247) for some additional thoughts on this|
|2023.07|@valeriupredoi|Shared gmail account to handle to Zenodo credentials|pending|
|2023.09|@schlunma|Talk about ERA5|pending|

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)

- Review of Pending Action Items
- @ehogan: would it be possible to make a decision on whether we should use `black`, please? See [ESMValTool: discussion: #2161](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/2161) for more details. I would be very happy to help with this, given the benefits! :blush:
- @ehogan: I would also really like to discuss the use of pre-commit.ci, and I realise I am not here for this meeting, but I wanted to add it to the list so I don't forget about it / maybe we can discuss it in the October meeting? See [ESMValTool: discussion: #3206](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3206) for more details.
- @ehogan: Should we add a "Security policy" to ESMValTool? See https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/community for more details.
- @ehogan: I have added this to the September agenda as I wanted to bring it to the attention of the TLT before October (happy to discuss further on Slack when I'm back from RSECon23) :blush: Would it be possible to discuss supporting those at the MO looking to develop ESMValTool to support more CORDEX data? I am happy to help, but I'm not that familiar with CORDEX / regional data. Here is some information from Katy Richardson, a Senior Scientist at the MO:
  - Met Office has a small amount of funding to support capability development for loading and processing CORDEX datasets in ESMValTool, with an initial focus on the CORDEX Africa model simulations
  - We are aware of numerous issues encountered with loading RCM data, mainly linked with specific coordinate systems, projections and metadata, and associated issues with e.g. area averaging calculations. There are varying issues across the different RCM models used in the CORDEX project - some more complex than others.
  - We are looking for support in prioritising a solution to these issues and incorporating a solution into an ESMValTool release to support future RCM and CORDEX analysis with ESMValTool.
  - The funding is from September 2023 - March 2024. Current plans are for this strand of the funded work to run between October 2023 and January 2024.
- @zklaus: Do we need an `orphan` label for PRs/Issues that have been abandoned by their author?
- @bouweandela: Who is looking after CMORizer pull requests now that Remi is gone?
- @bouweandela: Who will maintain the ESMValBot and ESMValTool VM now that Remi is gone?
- @valeriupredoi: [Mambaforge/Miniforge/Crapiforge](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2138#issuecomment-1755414763)
- @bouweandela: Plan future releases

## Topics Discussed
    
- @zklaus: release is on track, just one last PR to be merged (#2191) that is ready too to be merged (reviewed and ready)
- @zklaus: `orphan` label is indeed needed -> @vpredoi will put it in the labels list right now
- @schlunma - ERA5/Grib - PBs of ERA5 data provided by DKRZ, in GRIB file format;
  - use via`iris-grib` is the package needed to read GRIB files; finally the environment now works with `iris-grib`, only CircleCI tests are failing (local fine) - @bouweandela mentions the Circle Test is done in a pre-built container that may not have the dependency installed;
  - grid - ERA5 is on a reduced Gaussian grid, @schlunma wrote a bespoke regridder (lazy and all) that would be good to be in Scitools-Iris (at a later stage, after they have overhauled their regridders) - for now include it in a private function in ESMValCore (before inclusion in Iris)? Opinions below:
    - @zklaus: this is a useful functionality for other datasets, so probably not private
    - @schlunma: probably not a good idea to put in the ESMValCore mechanism (hard to get it out when time comes)
    - debating ensues...will add the conclusion
    - Decided: we have it as a public/tested regrid scheme
  - @zklaus Q: online download from CDS is the same as data from DKRZ? @schlunma A: yes, but there are more data available on DKRZ;
- @ehogan KGO solution: KGO recording solutions|See [ESMValTool: discussion: #3247](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3247) for the latest news -> please have a read and see if you can contribute! -> in terms of storage for KGOs, Zenodo may be a good solution (possible decided solution). Emma will test the few recipes in RTW with Zenodo first, and then we'll see.
- we will have another (special) TLT call in a fortnight's time!
