## Technical Lead Call 29 June 2023 (hybrid, ESMValTool workshop @ SMHI)

### Date and participants

- Names legend:
  - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
  - Klaus Zimmermann [@zklaus](https://github.com/zklaus)
  - Remi Kazeroni [@remi-kazeroni](https://github.com/remi-kazeroni)
  - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
  - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
  - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
  - Breixo Solino [@bsolino](https://github.com/bsolino)
  - Emma Hogan [ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)
- Date: 29 June 2023 1pm UK time (2pm CEST)
- Participants: @bouweandela @zklaus @remi-kazeroni @sloosvel @valeriupredoi @schlunma @ehogan @bsolino
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi and @remi-kazeroni
- Agenda in [comment](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/113#discussion-5351617)

### Topics discussed

1. [New policy to generate Core Changelog](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86#discussioncomment-5381404)?
  - See workshop minutes. Consensus on starting a new policy, similar to what is done by Iris.
  - [x] **Action Item** @zklaus will look into tools to generate the changelog and report back next time.

2. [Recording KGO](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86#discussioncomment-5474852)
  - @ehogan: do we need to do that per site?
  - @zklaus: suggests to start with one set of KGOs
  - @bouweandela: which platform to use? The VM is not good enough (no backup). @zklaus: git-lfs but we may need to pay
  - @bouweandela, @ehogan: which types of files to store? Consensus to store both plots and netcdf files
  - @bouweandela, we could add an option to remove large amounts of netcdf files produced by a handful of recipes. @remi-kazeroni: see issue https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3183
  - @bouweandela: requirements: version controlled, accessible to TLT, backed-up
  - @sloosvel: shall we consider a thredds server if not too complicated to set-up
  - Decided at the workshop: make a new issue to record a list of recipes with KGOs and proper explanations what that will be used for.
  - [ ] **Action Item** @ehogan will look into possible solutions and report at a next TLT.
  - [ ] **Action Item** @bouweandela, @remi-kazeroni will open an issue to ask people to check the recipe output before these enter the list of KGOs 

3. [Gmail-based solution](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/Community/discussions/86#discussioncomment-5381460)
  - @valeriupredoi checked a possibility that could be used for our Zenodo. @bouweandela: requirement is to be able to send emails from this account
  - [ ] **Action Item** @valeriupredoi will set up a google group for that.

4. Next meetings
  - Decision to use HackMD to record the minutes, see [link](https://hackmd.io/@CS80aeLkSQOjqsG5kzUKqg/ByUP4nYQq)
  - As soon as the meeting is over, the convener will setup a HAckMD document for next time with Action Items and section to suggest discussion topics.
  - Meetings will be on t**he first Tuesday of the month, 16:00 (European time)**.
  - [ ] **Action item** @valeriupredoi will set up a recurring meeting with a Zoom link.
