# Technical Lead Development Team call 7 May 2024

## Participants
- Attendees: @bouweandela @ehogan @schlunma @sloosvel @flicj191 @headmetal @rbeucher @valeriupredoi
- Absentees: @schlunma
- Chair: @valeriupredoi
- Minutes taker: @valeriupredoi and @bouweandela
- [HackMD Minutes](https://hackmd.io/VceghTxTT5-qgYMkV4pAyA?both)

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2023.07|@bouweandela|Shared gmail account to handle to Zenodo credentials|DONE: check email from Bouwe|
   
## Agenda

- @ehogan: Testing NumPy v2?
- @ehogan: Do not use Iris v3.7.0 or v3.8.0; instead use 3.7.1, 3.8.1 or >= 3.9 to avoid a regridding memory leak
- @ehogan: CircleCI and GitHub workflow; can they be consolidated?
- @valeriupredoi Prospector woes, can anyone review [this PR](https://github.com/landscapeio/prospector/pull/658)
- @valeriupredoi Issue with ESMPy (`esmpy`) not being on PyPI
- @ehogan: Release stuff

## Topics discussed

- Testing with NumPy v2: there is a [draft pull request](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2395) by @valeriupredoi open to do tests
- Pinning Iris: @ehogan will open pull requests to pin Iris to newer versions (will restrict to `>3.8.0`)
- The reason we have both CircleCI and GitHub Actions is that is has historically grown like this. CircleCI is better because it is a dedicated CI provider, but GitHub Actions is nice because it provides many predefined workflows. It seems a bit of a waste of time to change this ie there are a lot more pressing issues to follow up on (e.g. @bouweandela suggest updating to `pyproject.yml`)
- Release stuff: discussion about dedicated release branch vs mergeback into `main` branch: @bouweandela explains a linear history, target is different otherwise. Two open pull requests in milestone that can probably be merged today, one that has seen no activity in the past 2 years, so it seems unlikely that anything will happen before the deadline. That means that @ehogan will probably be able to do the ESMValCore feature freeze today.
- Issue with ESMPy (`esmpy`) not being on PyPI. @bouweandela: this package has never been on PyPI, so why does it cause problems now? An issue with the condamamba env that makes `pip` actually look for the pinned package on PyPI - I'll check all is fine and we should get the PR merged today (with keeping `esmpy` in the `setup.py` list)
- @valeriupredoi Prospector woes, can anyone review [this PR](https://github.com/landscapeio/prospector/pull/658) - please please :))
