# Technical Lead Development Team call 2 April 2024

## Participants
- Attendees: @bouweandela @ehogan @schlunma @sloosvel
- Absentees: @flicj191 @headmetal @rbeucher @valeriupredoi
- Chair: @bouweandela
- Minutes taker: @bouweandela

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2023.07|@bouweandela|Shared gmail account to handle to Zenodo credentials|pending|
   
## Agenda
- Review of Pending Action Items
- @schlunma Attending Iris Peleton meetings
- @ehogan Update on release planning

## Topics discussed
- Review of Pending Action Items: we dropped the action items waiting on @ehogan until she has time to work on them.
- [Scitools Peleton meetings](https://github.com/orgs/SciTools/projects/13): these meetings are a great opportunity to get involved with Iris development. @bouweandela will attend the meetings regularly at least until the end of the [ESiWACE3 ESMValTool service project](https://github.com/orgs/ESMValGroup/projects/20) in October. The time is not very practical for @schlunma, so he will attend occasionally when he is working on something iris related. The meetings are at 11 AM CEST, so it should be possible to join them from Australia if there is an interest.
- @ehogan Release date of ESMValCore and ESMValTool v2.11 is likely end of April/beginning of May
