## Technical Lead Call 5 March 2024 (online; two weeks after design date)

## Participants
- Attendees: @ehogan @valeriupredoi @bouweandela @schlunma @sloosvel
- Absentees: Aussies (but bad time for them, totally understandable)
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi

  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)

## Agenda

- @ehogan: I have some questions about the release :blush:
- @schlunma: We at DLR consider writing a paper about computational improvements in ESMValTool (dask and co.)
- @schlunma: Allows specifying DRS per rootpath in configuration file (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/1894)
- @schlunma: Do we really need CMOR warnings? (https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2351)@schlunma: squash CMOR warnings
- @ehogan: The presentation I gave at RSECon23 is now available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVgvQXgWSRQ) :tada:


## Topics discussed

- @ehogan: release questions: one issue with the steps taken during the release - @bouweandela proposes a meeting to discuss the procedures (Bouwe is the replacement past release manager, so he's kind enough to help); Thursday 14th March 10am UK - @flicj191 Felicity and Rhaegar Zeng volunteered to look around;
- @schlunma: paper on performance improvements with Dask, @bouweandela and @valeriupredoi are go for it
- @schlunma: specify DRS per rootpath: previous agreement at the June workshop was to include this in a larger-scale refactoring of the configuration - is this realistically feasable/possible, and when, and if not, we should merge https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/1894; @bouweandela will write up a synposis/set of specs for configuration overhaul (see [ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#2371](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2371)) - implementation looks distant, so we should merge the PR
- @schlunma: squash CMOR warnings - they produce huge warn messages output: @bouweandela mentions that they can be useful for data providers to check their data quality - piping it through to a dedicated file for CMOR warnings, @schlunma was nice to volunteer to implement the solution;
- @ehogan: The presentation I gave at RSECon23 is now available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVgvQXgWSRQ) :tada: - Emma will open a PR to the Community GH repo
- @bouweandela re-raising the topic about shared email address for Zenodo: [Gmail with delegated access looks like an option](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/138350?hl=en#zippy=%2Cadd-a-delegate) - @bouweandela is an absolute legend and he's taking over this from despicable V
- @valeriupredoi will contact Codacy to ask for support for Ruff
