# Technical Lead Development Team call 1 October 2024

## Participants

- Attendees: @sloosvel @schlunma @bouweandela @ehogan @rbeucher @valeriupredoi
- Absentees: @headmetal (not TLT anymore) @flicj191
- Chair: @valeriupredoi
- Minutes taker: @valeriupredoi

## Pending Action Items

None

## Agenda and topics discussed

- Review of Pending Action Items: one new set to DONE: next release manager @sloosvel (many thanks, Saskia!)
- @schlunma: Vote on potential new TLT members: @bettina-gier Tina: will be working on IntakeESM, Healpix (technical stuff), PR reviews - there was a vote, and all in favour! @valeriupredoi and @schlunma: add her to the mailinglist, Slack, Google Cal event for the TLT; also Mike Tetley @headmetal to be removed, and add Charles Taylor (email off Slack);
- @bouweandela: Can we disable coverage collection by default when running tests locally [ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#2456](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2456#discussion_r1634728779) -> takes about 2x slower to run tests: we like it, so long as there is documentation on how to turn it back on; 
- @bouweandela: Switch from yapf to ruff and fix our pre-commit set up? See e.g. [ESMValGroup/ESMValTool#2161](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/2161) and [ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#2490](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2490#issuecomment-2342899385); @schlunma any plans for esmvaltool? @bouweandela: we'll try see how it goes;
- @bouweandela: Consider adopting spec0 [ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#2533](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2533) -> all happy about it, @bouweandela points us to a checker, also we should start preparing docs for it, and adopt the new standard;
- @ehogan: Would we like to help create a geospatial benchmark suite, as described in this blog post from Coiled (Matt Rocklin's dask-as-a-service company): [Large Scale Geospatial Benchmarks](https://docs.coiled.io/blog/geospatial-benchmarks.html)? Martin and Bill in AVD suggested that ESMValTool might well be able to help out with one of the asks, which is code that does large-scale geospatial data processing; @ehogan promised to open an Issue or Discussion item about it;
- @schlunma: What do we about NCL? There are (again) problems with our environment, see [ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#2535](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/2535): separate module maybe; @bouweandela: leave it to user to install it; @schlunma: diagnostics are old, most devs switching to Python for new stuff -> **topic to be brought at the workshop**; @rbeucher: a few recipes (eg Perfmetrics) that are good, to be ported to Python: possible solutions include separate conda envs and docker containers; this item has a **Workshop TODO**;
- @schlunma: Very brief update on ESMValTool+Dask paper: to be re-circulated today(ish) and some of us still need to send comments; @bouweandela give feedback on current performance status: few benchmark discrepancies to look at ie perfomance is *even* better (eg used dev branch of `iris`);
- @valeriupredoi: work on modernizing and re-deploying our ESMValBot https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValBot/pull/37
- @valeriupredoi: `codacy-ruff` plugin to Codacy: https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3739
- @rbeucher: `intake-esm` catalog support: more and more interest in adding datasets to the ESM catalog; @bouwenadela: looking at XCube also, a proposal in the pipes, so there may be time to implement `intake` support; coordinate with Tina, so there is no duplication -> a meeting to be set up;
- @schlunma wants to merge PR that introduces new (dask-like) configuration system today ([ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#2448](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2448)): this needs ne merged **ASAP**;
- @ehogan: It's [International RSE Day](https://society-rse.org/international-rse-day-october-10th-2024/) on October 10! :blush: yay!
- AOB: good news! We have our next Release Manager (for v2.12.0): @sloosvel - thank you, Saskia! ETA for release January 2025.
