# Technical Lead Development Team call 2 July 2024

## Participants
- Attendees: @bouweandela @ehogan @flicj191 @schlunma @sloosvel
- Absentees: @headmetal @rbeucher @valeriupredoi 
- Chair: @schlunma
- Minutes taker: @bouweandela

## Pending Action Items

None

## Agenda
- @ehogan: Update on the release :blush:
- @ehogan: Where would be the best place to store KGOs for the RTW on DKRZ?
- @ehogan: Would it be possible to get [gh (cli for GitHub)](https://github.com/cli/cli) installed on DKRZ, so the RTW can open issues when a recipe fails?
- @schlunma started a document for the "Dask-ESMValTool" paper (only bullet points for now). Who wants to contribute? Would be great to brainstorm ideas for content together
- @schlunma: If we find a suitable topic, it would be possible to submit another ESiWACE3 proposal (starting end of 2024), but we would have bigger chances if this is not submitted by DLR (because we already got the first one funded) -> relevant/desired for us?
- @schlunma: it looks like ESGF will retire CMIP5 and CMIP3 and CORDEX-CMIP5 datasets very soon - what do we do abuot this? SLT thought about "archive repository" 
- @ehogan: Do we test against Iris release candidates? Should we?

## Topics discussed
- @ehogan Release testing underway, would like some help with the final reviews. Hopefully the release will happen today. @schlunma and @bouweandela offered to help out.
- Recipe test workflow: the recommended place for somewhat longer term storage is the bd0854 [group workspace](https://docs.dkrz.de/doc/levante/file-systems.html), but note that space is limited. Longer term we would like to store the known good outputs on Zenodo.
- Add `gh` to ESMValTool development dependencies in environment(_osx).yml, it is not installed on Levante as a module
- @schlunma Please contact me if you would like to be involved in writing the paper on improving ESMValCore computational performance.
- The current ESiWACE3 service project runs until September 2024. There is an option to submit a new ESiWACE3 proposal for any issues we cannot solve before the project is over. Please report remaining computational performance issues (e.g. slow data load, high memory use, long runtime, etc) so we can use them for the next proposal. A GitHub issue is usually a good place, but this discussion [ESMValGroup/ESMValCore#1763](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/discussions/1763) can also be used.
- CMIP5/CMIP3 data availability: If CMIP5 and CMIP3 data would be no longer available from ESGF, this would affect 125 out of 160 recipes currently available in ESMValTool. We discussed several options:
    - Try to convince the ESGF developers that they should keep the data available because it is necessary for reproducible science. Papers like GMD demand robust archives for publications and it looks like ESGF is not capable of develivering this: https://www.geoscientific-model-development.net/policies/code_and_data_policy.html
    - Use the (fraction of?) the data that is archived at local centers, though it is not yet clear how this will be made available.
    - Re-publish relevant data on a more reliable repository, e.g. Zenodo, and update ESMValCore so it can download from there
    - Update recipes to CMIP6 where it makes sense to do so (e.g. general recipes, example recipes)
    - Retire recipes reproducing specific papers
- Testing Iris release candidates could be done with the Recipe Test Workflow. @ehogan Will take this into consideration for the long term development of the recipe test workflow. @bouweandela will make a nightly ESMValCore test run with the Iris development version to catch issues early.
