# Technical Lead Development Team call 12 November 2024

## Participants

- Attendees: @schlunma @bouweandela @rbeucher @valeriupredoi @charles-turner-1
- Absentees: @flicj191 @ehogan @sloosvel
- Chair: @valeriupredoi
- Minutes taker: @valeriupredoi

## Action Items

| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2024-10-01| @ehogan | Open an Issue or Discussion item about geospatial benchmark suite | **Done**: [ESMValTool: Discussion #3764: Would we like to help create a geospatial benchmark suite?](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/discussions/3764)
|2024-08-13| all | Review [RTW pull request](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/3210) | pending |

## Proposed topics (to be deffred to next call)

- Review of Pending Action Items
- @ehogan: I know I'm not here but a new Geoscience RSE community has recently been formed (https://society-rse.org/weather-and-climate-rsecon24-birds-of-a-feather-session-retrospective-blog-post/) and we are interested in organising a townhall meeting for RSEs at EGU25 next year; will there be an ESMValTool presence there and should we get involved?

## Agenda and topics discussed

- @valeriupredoi [Python 3.13 support PR](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2566) - @bouweandela offered to look, cheers
- @rbeucher @charlesturner we briefly discussed Intake-ESM contributions, already started by NRI (Charles is now a maintainer of Intake-ESM) - more ANON at the workshop
- @bouweandela Having ESMValCore as a subproject of the ESMValTool documentation is confusing to users and various things about the setup are broken [ESMValGroup/ESMValTool#3490](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3490). Would it be an option to split the documentation of the two projects? - Bouwe mentions a clear separation makes things easier and clearer, but there may be administrative/political headaches (umbrella project ESMValGroup etc); @schlunma: references changed to URLs may be quite a bit of work; @valeriupredoi: we need to find time/person; @romain: Felicity could do it (pending on Steering Committee approval)
- @schlunma: Brief update on paper: paper needs internal clearance (formality!), also reruns with iris 3.11 - the more hefty upgrade needed, and a ESMValCore=2.11.1 release, hoping end of November submission
