# Technical Lead Development Team call 3 September 2024

## Participants
- Attendees: @sloosvel @schlunma @bouweandela
- Absentees: @valeriupredoi @ehogan @headmetal @rbeucher @flicj191
- Chair: @bouweandela
- Minutes taker: @schlunma

## Action Items

| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
|2024-08-13|@bouweandela @schlunma|[Variable derivation for ERA5 in the fix](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/issues/1806)|pending|
|2024-08-13|all|Review [RTW pull request](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/pull/3210)|pending|
|2024-08-13|all|Find a new release manager|pending|
|2024-09-03|@schlunma|Re-ping UET with e-mail and ask for review of new [configuration PR](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2448)|pending|
|2024-09-03|all|Brainstorm possible topics for new ESiWACE computational performance improvement proposal (call will be published [here](https://www.esiwace.eu/services/software-support), likely towards the end of the year)|pending|
|2024-09-03|@schlunma|Circulate paper about ESMValTool Dask improvements|pending|

## Agenda

- Review of Pending Action Items
- Add new action items
- Support for intake: @bouweandela and Tina might be able to work on that

## Topics discussed

