## Technical Lead Call 16 January 2024 (online; two weeks after design date)

## Participants
- Attendees: @ehogan @valeriupredoi @bouweandela @schlunma @zklaus
- Absentees: @sloosvel
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi
- Special mention: last meeting for @zklaus (**#DankeKlaus**)

  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Klaus Zimmermann [@zklaus](https://github.com/zklaus)
    - Saskia Sloosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)

- Review of Pending Action Items
- Update about CMEW @ehogan
- OBS data versioning [ESMValGroup/ESMValTool#3452](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3452) @bouweandela
- Managing connections and dealing with knowledge gaps when personnel move @bouweandela

## Topics discussed

- OBS data at SPIRIT (ESM2025) @schlunma - @zklaus provided path and location at `/modfs/modtools/esmvaltool/obs` with `/home/kzimmer`
- @bouweandela: @zklaus' replacement (tough term!) in the Tech Lead Team: Klaus would nominate Joakim Loew; for Steering Committee/Group to be discussed (possibly Ulrika)
- Inviting new members to the tech lead team (ACCESS-NRI and SMHI) @bouweandela
- Release manager for and time of v2.11 release @bouweandela - @ehogan may be able to do it in March, but may be more certain towards the end of January; maybe worth asking at the community meeting;
- Planning next releases @bouweandela - best to start with asking the ACCESS-NRI folks, as suggested by the Steering Group, to join the Tech Lead Team (as mentioned above), then we have a large enough TLT where we find release managers from medium to (longer term);
- New meeting to catch up with the iris developers @bouweandela - related to the optimization work done by @bouweandela and his colleague: it appears that iris is starting to be the performance bottleneck; Bouwe will start the motion with an email soon(ish);
- To be looked at within the next few days/week - Review of some PRs (descending priority) @schlunma
    1. https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2231 @bouweandela will have a look
    2. https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2183 @valeriupredoi will have a look
    3. https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2279 @valeriupredoi will have a look
    4. https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2189 @valeriupredoi will have a look
    5. https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2270 @eghogan will have a look

