## Technical Lead Call 13 February 2024 (online; one weeks after design date)

## Participants
- Attendees: @headmetal @rbeucher @flicj191 @ehogan @valeriupredoi @bouweandela
- Absentees: @sloosvel @schulnam (DLR forced holiday)
- Chairs and minutes takers: @valeriupredoi
- Special mention: first meeting for @headmetal @rbeucher @flicj191 (welcome, folks!)

  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Saskia Sloosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [@ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)
    - Felicity Chun [@flicj191](https://github.com/flicj191)
    - Mike Tetley [@headmetal](https://github.com/headmetal)
    - Romain Beucher [@rbeucher](https://github.com/rbeucher)

## Proposed topics for discussion (to be ordered then added to the Agenda section at the start of the meeting)

- Review of Pending Action Items
- Update about CMEW @ehogan
- OBS data versioning [ESMValGroup/ESMValTool#3452](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3452) @bouweandela
- Managing connections and dealing with knowledge gaps when personnel move @bouweandela

## Topics discussed

- @valeriupredoi: TLT meeting scheduling
- Next release: likely in April/May by @ehogan and team
  - @rbeucher is asking what we do for a release: @bouweandela giving a brief overview of the workload needed
  - TLT members have left/moved, so we are short on people
  - @ehogan - MetO still working on the RTW (recipe test workflow) - it works on a small scale (prototype)
  - recipes break since dependencies change but the maintainers don't run them periodically
  - @rbeucher - could run different recipes on different machines to speed the process up: comparison vs previous run could still be made?
- OBS data versioning [ESMValGroup/ESMValTool#3452](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/issues/3452) @bouweandela - to be looked at by @valeriupredoi as well
- CMEW update: demo session went very well: data was found, CDDS-ed, and immediately passed to ESMValTool for running a small recipe, well done!
- Managing connections and dealing with knowledge gaps when personnel move @bouweandela: no single point of failure - we need redundencies in place ie people that know that "special stuff" too:
  - @rbeucher is asking about the Consortium ie at least 1 FTE per institute: @bouweandela responds: variablity in FTE/institute depending on available funding; MetO about the same (@ehogan and Alistair, mainly)
  - @bouweandela recommends that we work together on things whereever this is possible within the constraints posed by funding sources
  - @bouweandela recommends ensuring that we write down critical information
  - @ehogan proposes we create a table of expertises among ourselves, so we discover gaps, and identify the overlaps; @bouweandela also proposes teams' description - useful for identifying knowledge bases -> @bouweandela proposes contact at the Steering Committee as well.
- @rbeucher is asking about PR reviewes - can they help? Yes, please, cheers! Contributions most welcome, and documentation in the PR review process (@bouweandela is giving a brief overview of the PR merging process).
- @rbeucher bunch of Australia-specific (ocean mainly) recipes (not ESMValTool-ed, but lots interested in porting them to ESMValTool) -> great to have them, @bouweandela poroposes bringing own specialist reviewers, faster and more accurate review.
