# Technical Lead Development Team call 3 October 2025

## Participants
- Attendees: @sloosvel @ehogan @bouweandela @flicj191 @charles-turner-1 @valeriupredoi
- Absentees: @rbeucher @bettina-gier @schulnma @jlenh
- Chair: @bouweandela and @valeriupredoi
- Minutes taker: @valeriupredoi
  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu (V) Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [@ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)
    - Bettina (Tina) Gier [@bettina-gier](https://github.com/bettina-gier)
    - Romain Beucher [@rbeucher](https://github.com/rbeucher)
    - Felicity Chun [@flicj191](https://github.com/flicj191)
    - Charles Turner [@charles-turner-1](https://github.com/charles-turner-1)
    - Julien Lenhardt [@jlenh](https://github.com/jlenh)

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|

## Agenda
- Review of Pending Action Items - none
- @ehogan: As a way to prioritise issues, would it be worth using a project board, or at least reviewing issues at TLT meetings? -> @bouweandela: we do have Milestones (M) (and are used during release cycles, but there a lot of outstanding issues/PRs that do get pushed from M to M often)
- @ehogan: I discovered recently that variable names will be changing for CMIP7: https://github.com/WCRP-CMIP/CMIP7-CVs/issues/172. There's also some example test tables in the CMOR repo <https://github.com/PCMDI/cmor/blob/main/TestTables/CMIP7_atmos2d.json#L40> with the branded variable suffix. Will this cause issues for ESMValTool? -> few changed elements like underscores; @sloosvel: there is already a CMIP5-CMIP6 list and we can maybe add to that
- @sloosvel: Just a reminder that the new release schedule is now available in the documentation: <https://docs.esmvaltool.org/en/latest/community/release_strategy/release_strategy.html#upcoming-releases> - we are going through the milestones listed
- @ehogan will be looking at the split docs PR #2732 which is nearly ready
- @bouweandela: REF launch event next week: <https://staging.climate-ref.org/explorer/themes?theme=atmosphere> and <https://github.com/Climate-REF/climate-ref/>
