# Technical Lead Development Team call 7 November 2025

**Note**

Moved the TLT call to the first Friday of the month.

## Participants
- Attendees: @sloosvel @bouweandela @rbeucher @valeriupredoi @bettina-gier @jlenh
- Absentees: @flicj191 @schulnma (Papa Leave) @ehigal (Leave) @charles-turner-1
- Chair: @valeriupredoi
- Minutes taker: @valeriupredoi
  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu (V) Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [@ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)
    - Bettina (Tina) Gier [@bettina-gier](https://github.com/bettina-gier)
    - Romain Beucher [@rbeucher](https://github.com/rbeucher)
    - Felicity Chun [@flicj191](https://github.com/flicj191)
    - Charles Turner [@charles-turner-1](https://github.com/charles-turner-1)
    - Julien Lenhardt [@jlenh](https://github.com/jlenh)

## Pending Action Items
| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|

## Agenda
- Review of Pending Action Items - none
- items proposed by @ehogan to be discussed: discussion to be done when @ehogan present:
  - @ehogan: V offered to give an overview of AIVAL in my absence (thank you V!). A question from me: Would it be possible to add a standing agenda item to discuss technical work related to AIVAL? Or should we do this via a separate meeting?
  - @ehogan: Would the TLT like to use the Thursday after the ESMValTool workshop in May (Thu, May 14) at the MO to meet with AVD? Please let me know! :blush:
- @sloosvel announcing her leaving BSC
- @bouweandela @valeriupredoi @rbeucher commenting on the [new ESGF2 support](https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValCore/pull/2765) by @bouweandela
