# Technical Lead Development Team call 1 April 2025

## Participants

- Attendees: @ehogan @jlenh @bouweandela @valeriupredoi @charles-turner-1 @sloosvel @rbeucher
- Absentees: @flicj191 @schunma @bettina-gier
- Chair: @valeriupredoi
- Minutes taker: @valeriupredoi
  - Names legend:
    - Bouwe Andela [@bouweandela](https://github.com/bouweandela)
    - Saskia Loosveldt [@sloosvel](https://github.com/sloosvel)
    - Valeriu (V) Predoi [@valeriupredoi](https://github.com/valeriupredoi)
    - Manuel Schlund [@schlunma](https://github.com/schlunma)
    - Emma Hogan [@ehogan](https://github.com/ehogan)
    - Bettina (Tina) Gier [@bettina-gier](https://github.com/bettina-gier)
    - Romain Beucher [@rbeucher](https://github.com/rbeucher)
    - Felicity Chun [@flicj191](https://github.com/flicj191)
    - Charles Turner [@charles-turner-1](https://github.com/charles-turner-1)
    - Julien Lenhardt [@jlenh](https://github.com/jlenh)

## Action Items (from 4 February: all done!)

| Meeting | Assignees | Item | Status |
|-|-|-|-|
| yyyy-mm-dd | name | stuff | more stuff |

## Agenda and topics discussed

- Review of Pending Action Items - all caught up with
- @charles-turner-1 Intake cataloging/find files/datasets
- @bouweandela: maintainance - R issues: upper limit pin on R is keeping old dependencies and environment not solving well, we need help fixing the broken R recipes (that needed the R pin); also help fully replacing prospector with ruff; @sloosvel: is happy to ask BSC folks about the R recipes (thank you!) https://github.com/esMValGroup/esMValTool/issues/3674
- @jlenh: fire diagnostics for REF: integration of diagnostics is done; some checks still needed (e.g. units for burnt area); draft pull requestnot yet, branch <https://github.com/ESMValGroup/ESMValTool/tree/ref_fire_diagnostic>
- @jlenh: REF - if there is a place where output (plots, data) can go to; @bouwenadela: yes and no, we have a board https://github.com/orgs/Climate-REF/projects/2/views/1 (and of course, the documentation pages for each recipe)
